NEWSHOUR PRODUCTIONS, LLC
>> Woodruff: GOOD EVENING,
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF. >>
Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
TONIGHT, AN EXPLOSION OF SEISMIC
TONIGHT, AN EXPLOSION OF
SEISMIC PROPORTIONS IN CHINA.
PROPORTIONS IN CHINA. THE
AFTERMATH OF A TOXIC
THE AFTERMATH OF A TOXIC
CHEMICAL CATASTROPHE.
CHEMICAL CATASTROPHE. >>
Ifill: A LOOK INSIDE SYRIA.
>> Ifill: A LOOK INSIDE SYRIA.
HOW THE ISLAMIC STATE IS USING
SEX SLAVERY AS A RECRUITMENT
SEX SLAVERY AS A
RECRUITMENT TOOL.
TOOL. >> Woodruff:
PLUS, THE FRONT
>> Woodruff: PLUS, THE FRONT
LINES IN THE EFFORT TO STOP THE
RAPID SPREAD OF WILDFIRES IN THE
WEST, DROUGHT-STRICKEN FORESTS
WEST, DROUGHT-STRICKEN
FORESTS FUEL THE FLAMES.
FUEL THE FLAMES. >> IT'S
LIKE THEY'RE EXPLOSIVE.
>> IT'S LIKE THEY'RE EXPLOSIVE.
IT'S ALMOST LIKE THEY ALL CATCH
IT'S ALMOST LIKE THEY
ALL CATCH FIRE AT ONCE.
FIRE AT ONCE. I'VE
BEEN A FIREFIGHTER FOR
I'VE BEEN A FIREFIGHTER FOR
ALMOST 20 YEARS, I'VE HEARD 30-
YEAR FIREFIGHTERS AND 40-YEAR
FIREFIGHTERS SAY THEY'VE NEVER
SEEN THIS KIND OF FIRE BEHAVIOR
SEEN THIS KIND OF FIRE
BEHAVIOR IN THEIR CAREER.
IN THEIR CAREER. >>
Ifill: ALL THAT AND MORE
>> Ifill: ALL THAT AND MORE
ON TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: THE DEATH TOLL
FROM STUNNING EXPLOSIONS IN
STUNNING EXPLOSIONS IN
NORTHSTEREAN CHINA ROSE TO 50
TODAY, AND WAS EXPECTED TO GO
TODAY, AND WAS
EXPECTED TO GO HIGHER.
HIGHER. THE BLASTS
ERUPTED LAST NIGHT IN
THE BLASTS ERUPTED LAST NIGHT
IN TIANJIN, AT PORT FACILITIES
TIANJIN, AT PORT FACILITIES
PACKED WITH PETROCHEMICALS.
JONATHAN RUGMAN OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS HAS THIS REPORT.
>> Reporter: THIS WAS THE
WAREHOUSE DISTRICT OF TIANJIN,
ONE OF CHINA'S BIGGEST RTS POIN
A COUNTRY PROUD OF BEING THE
MANUFACTURING AND EXPORT HUB OF
MANUFACTURING AND EXPORT
HUB OF THE WORLD.
THE WORLD. TODAY,
TIANJIN WAS EXPORTING
TODAY, TIANJIN WAS EXPORTING
OVER 700 INJURED PEOPLE TO LOCAL
OVER 700 INJURED PEOPLE
TO LOCAL HOSPITALS.
HOSPITALS. AND THE
FIRES RAGING HERE ARE
AND THE FIRES RAGING HERE
ARE FEARED TO BE SO TOXIC.
FEARED TO BE SO TOXIC. THAT
FIREFIGHTERS WITHDREW THIS
THAT FIREFIGHTERS WITHDREW THIS
AFTERNOON TO LET THEM BURN.
THE FIRST EXPLOSION HAPPENED
JUST BEFORE MIDNIGHT.
JUST BEFORE MIDNIGHT. ONE
EYEWITNESS SAID IT SOUNDED
ONE EYEWITNESS SAID IT SOUNDED
LIKE THE START OF A WAR.
LIKE THE START OF A WAR. THE
SECOND WAS SEVERAL TIMES
THE SECOND WAS SEVERAL
TIMES BIGGER.
BIGGER. SEISMIC
MONITORS REGISTERED THE
SEISMIC MONITORS REGISTERED THE
DETONATION AS THE EQUIVALENT OF
DETONATION AS THE EQUIVALENT
OF A 2.9 EARTHQUAKE.
THIS INDUSTRIAL DISASTER IN A
CITY O15 MF ILLION PEOPLE SOME
OF THEM LIVING LESS
THAN A MILE AWAY.
AWAY. CHINA OFTEN
TRIES TO STIFLE BAD
CHINA OFTEN TRIES
TO STIFLE BAD NEWS.
NEWS. BUT HOW TO STIFLE THIS?
BUT HOW TO STIFLE THIS? WHEN
IT'S FILMED ON A MOBILE
WHEN IT'S FILMED ON A MOBILE
PHONE AND POSTED ONLINE, THIS
JUST A HUNDRED MILES FROM
JUST A HUNDRED MILES
FROM BEIJING ITSELF.
I HEARD THE EXPLOSION. I
LAID DOWN IMMEDIATELY.
I LAID DOWN IMMEDIATELY. THE
SECURITY BOOTD WAS DESTROYED
THE SECURITY BOOTD WAS
DESTROYED COMPLETELY.
COMPLETELY. CHINA'S
PRESIDENT HAS DEMANDED
CHINA'S PRESIDENT HAS DEMANDED
ANY CULPRIT BE SEVERELY HANDLED
WHILE THE WAREHOUSE MANAGER HAS
WHILE THE WAREHOUSE MANAGER
HAS BEEN DETAINED.
BEEN DETAINED. TROOPS
TRAINED TO DEAL WITH
TROOPS TRAINED TO DEAL WITH
CHEMICAL DISASTERS HAVE NOW BEEN
CHEMICAL DISASTERS
HAVE NOW BEEN SENT.
SENT. >> (TRANSLATED
): WE ARE FACING
>> (TRANSLATED): WE ARE
FACING A VERY COMPLICATED
SITUATION.
A VERY COMPLICATED SITUATION.
WE HAVE A VERY SHORT TIME THE
WE HAVE A VERY SHORT TIME
THE HANDLE THIS ACCIDENT.
HANDLE THIS ACCIDENT. WE WANT
THE PREVENT FURTHER LOSS
WE WANT THE PREVENT FURTHER LOSS
BEFORE WE ARE ABSOLUTELY CLEAR
ABOUT MATERIALS IN THE EXPLOSION
SIGHT, WE MUST BE VERY PRUDENT
AND CAUTIOUS, SO WE ASKED THE
MILITARY FOR THEIR HELP.
MILITARY FOR THEIR HELP. 10
HOSPITALS ARE TREATING THE
10 HOSPITALS ARE
TREATING THE INJURED.
INJURED. 18 FIREFIGHTERS
ARE REPORTED
18 FIREFIGHTERS ARE
REPORTED MISSING.
MISSING. SOME 6,000
PEOPLE HAVE BEEN
SOME 6,000 PEOPLE
HAVE BEEN EVACUATED.
EVACUATED. THESE
EXTRAORDINARY PICTURES
THESE EXTRAORDINARY PICTURES
SUGGEST TRANSPARENCY RATHER THAN
SUGGEST TRANSPARENCY
RATHER THAN COVER UP.
COVER UP. SHIPPING
CONTAINERS CRUMPLED
SHIPPING CONTAINERS CRUMPLED
LIKE USED DRINKS CARTONS.
LIKE USED DRINKS CARTONS. THE
SKELETONS OF HUNDREDS OF
THE SKELETONS OF HUNDREDS OF
BRAND NEW CARS IN THIS THE TENTH
BIGGEST PORT IN THE WORLD.
BIGGEST PORT IN THE WORLD. BUT
THE AUGUST HEAT IS INTENSE
BUT THE AUGUST HEAT
IS INTENSE HERE.
HERE. AND IF CHINESE
AUTHORITIES FAIL
AND IF CHINESE AUTHORITIES FAIL
TO PROVIDE ANSWERS, LOCAL ANGER
TO PROVIDE ANSWERS, LOCAL
ANGER COULD SOON BOIL OVER.
COULD SOON BOIL OVER. >>
Ifill: CHINESE AUTHORITIES
>> Ifill: CHINESE AUTHORITIES
DID PARTIALLY LIMIT SOCIAL MEDIA
POSTS ABOUT THE EXPLOSIONS.
AND, THEY WARNED THERE WOULD BE
AND, THEY WARNED THERE WOULD
BE ZERO TOLERANCE FOR CREATING
ZERO TOLERANCE FOR
CREATING RUMORS.
RUMORS. >> Woodruff:
THE OTHER STORY
>> Woodruff: THE OTHER STORY
TODAY OUT OF CHINA WAS THEIR
MOVE TO EASE FEARS THAT THE
VALUE OF THEIR CURRENCY COULD
VALUE OF THEIR CURRENCY
COULD DROP EVEN MORE.
DROP EVEN MORE. THE YUAN
HAS FALLEN NEARLY 3%
THE YUAN HAS FALLEN NEARLY
3% THIS WEEK, ROILING WORLD
THIS WEEK, ROILING WORLD
FINANCIAL MARKETS.
FINANCIAL MARKETS. BUT
CHINA'S CENTRAL BANK
BUT CHINA'S CENTRAL BANK
DISMISSED TALK THAT IT MIGHT
DISMISSED TALK THAT IT
MIGHT ALLOW A 10% DECLINE.
ALLOW A 10% DECLINE. A TOP
OFFICIAL SAID, "THIS IS
A TOP OFFICIAL SAID,
"THIS IS SHEER NONSENSE.
SHEER NONSENSE. IT IS
TOTALLY UNFOUNDED."
IT IS TOTALLY UNFOUNDED." >>
Ifill: THE GREEK PARLIAMENT
>> Ifill: THE GREEK PARLIAMENT
MOVED TONIGHT TO PUSH A FORMAL
BAILOUT AGREEMENT THROUGH
BAILOUT AGREEMENT
THROUGH PARLIAMENT.
PARLIAMENT. LAWMAKERS
SPENT HOURS DEBATING A
LAWMAKERS SPENT HOURS DEBATING
A RESCUE PACKAGE WORTH ABOUT
RESCUE PACKAGE WORTH
ABOUT $93 BILLION.
$93 BILLION. IT
MANDATES UNPOPULAR NEW
IT MANDATES UNPOPULAR NEW
AUSTERITY MEASURES, INCLUDING
MORE SPENDING CUTS AND TAX
MORE SPENDING CUTS
AND TAX HIKES.
HIKES. THE RULING
SYRIZA PARTY HAS
THE RULING SYRIZA PARTY HAS
FACED A REBELLION IN ITS RANKS,
AND IT'S RELYING ON OPPOSITION
SUPPORT TO APPROVE THE DEAL.
SUPPORT TO APPROVE THE DEAL. >>
Woodruff: IRAQ TODAY STRONGLY
>> Woodruff: IRAQ TODAY STRONGLY
CRITICIZED GENERAL RAY ODIERNO,
THE RETIRING CHIEF OF THE U.S.
ARMY, FOR SUGGESTING THE COUNTRY
MAY HAVE TO BE DIVIDED.
MAY HAVE TO BE DIVIDED. A
SPOKESMAN FOR PRIME MINISTER
A SPOKESMAN FOR PRIME MINISTER
HAIDER AL-ABADI CALLED THE
GENERAL'S COMMENT IRRESPONSIBLE.
ODIERNO WAS ASKED ABOUT THE
IRAQI SITUATION YESTERDAY, AT
IRAQI SITUATION YESTERDAY,
AT HIS FINAL PENTAGON NEWS
HIS FINAL PENTAGON
NEWS CONFERENCE.
CONFERENCE. >> I THINK
THERE MIGHT BE SOME
>> I THINK THERE MIGHT BE SOME
ALTERNATIVE SOLUTIONS THAT MIGHT
HAVE TO COME INTO THIS SOMETIME
IN THE FUTURE, WHERE IRAQ MIGHT
NOT LOOK LIKE IT DID IN THE
NOT LOOK LIKE IT
DID IN THE PAST.
PAST. IT MIGHT BE
THE ONLY SOLUTION,
IT MIGHT BE THE ONLY SOLUTION,
BUT I'M NOT READY TO SAY THAT
BUT I'M NOT READY
TO SAY THAT YET.
YET. >> Woodruff:
CHUNKS OF IRAQ ARE
>> Woodruff: CHUNKS OF IRAQ ARE
ALREADY CONTROLLED BY ISLAMIC
STATE MILITANTS, KURDS AND
STATE MILITANTS,
KURDS AND SHIITES.
SHIITES. AND TODAY,
AN ISLAMIC STATE
AND TODAY, AN ISLAMIC STATE
BOMBING IN BAGHDAD KILLED DOZENS
BOMBING IN BAGHDAD
KILLED DOZENS OF PEOPLE.
OF PEOPLE. WE'LL HAVE
A FULL REPORT, AFTER
WE'LL HAVE A FULL REPORT,
AFTER THE NEWS SUMMARY.
THE NEWS SUMMARY. >> Ifill:
BACK IN THIS COUNTRY,
>> Ifill: BACK IN THIS COUNTRY,
THE SUPREME COURT OF CONNECTICUT
HAS ORDERED AN END TO
HAS ORDERED AN END
TO EXECUTIONS.
EXECUTIONS. THAT DECISION
TODAY SPARED THE
THAT DECISION TODAY SPARED THE
LIVES OF THE 11 INMATES STILL ON
LIVES OF THE 11 INMATES STILL
ON THE STATE'S DEATH ROW.
THE STATE'S DEATH ROW. THEY
WERE SENTENCED IN ADVANCE
THEY WERE SENTENCED IN ADVANCE
OF A 2012 LAW THAT ABOLISHED
CAPITAL PUNISHMENT.
CAPITAL PUNISHMENT. THE
COURT RULED, 4 TO 3, THAT
THE COURT RULED, 4 TO 3, THAT
CARRYING OUT THOSE EXECUTIONS
NOW WOULD AMOUNT TO CRUEL AND
NOW WOULD AMOUNT TO CRUEL
AND UNUSUAL PUNISHMENT.
UNUSUAL PUNISHMENT. >>
Woodruff: U.S. CUSTOMS
>> Woodruff: U.S. CUSTOMS
OFFICIALS RETURNED A STOLEN
PICASSO TO FRENCH HANDS TODAY,
MORE THAN A DECADE AFTER IT WAS
MORE THAN A DECADE AFTER
IT WAS STOLEN IN PARIS.
STOLEN IN PARIS. THE WORK,
KNOWN IN ENGLISH AS
THE WORK, KNOWN IN ENGLISH AS
"THE HAIRDRESSER," IS VALUED AT
"THE HAIRDRESSER," IS
VALUED AT $15 MILLION.
$15 MILLION. CUSTOMS
AGENTS RECOVERED IT IN
CUSTOMS AGENTS RECOVERED IT IN
DECEMBER, AND THEIR DIRECTOR
HANDED IT OVER TODAY, IN A
CEREMONY AT THE FRENCH EMBASSY
CEREMONY AT THE FRENCH
EMBASSY IN WASHINGTON.
IN WASHINGTON. >> WHILE
WE RECOGNIZE THAT THERE
>> WHILE WE RECOGNIZE THAT THERE
IS CERTAINLY A VALUE THAT'S BEEN
ATTACHED TO THIS PARTICULAR
PAINTING, WE TAKE PRIDE IN THE
FACT THAT ART LIKE THIS IS TRULY
FACT THAT ART LIKE THIS
IS TRULY PRICELESS.
PRICELESS. AND WE'RE
SO GLAD THAT IT'S
AND WE'RE SO GLAD THAT IT'S
GOING TO BE SHOWN TO THE WORLD
GOING TO BE SHOWN
TO THE WORLD AGAIN.
AGAIN. >> Woodruff:
THE PAINTING WAS
>> Woodruff: THE PAINTING WAS
FOUND IN A PACKAGE SHIPPED FROM
FOUND IN A PACKAGE SHIPPED
FROM BELGIUM TO NEW JERSEY.
BELGIUM TO NEW JERSEY. THE
SHIPPING LABEL DESCRIBED IT
THE SHIPPING LABEL DESCRIBED
IT AS A HANDICRAFT WORTH $37.
AS A HANDICRAFT WORTH $37. SO
FAR, NO ONE'S BEEN ARRESTED.
SO FAR, NO ONE'S BEEN ARRESTED.
>> Ifill: SIGHTINGS OF DRONES BY
AIRLINE PILOTS AND OTHERS HAVE
MORE THAN DOUBLED IN THE LAST
MORE THAN DOUBLED
IN THE LAST YEAR.
YEAR. THE FEDERAL AVIATION
THE FEDERAL AVIATION
ADMINISTRATION SAYS IT'S
RECEIVED MORE THAN 650 REPORTS
RECEIVED MORE THAN 650
REPORTS THIS YEAR.
THIS YEAR. SOME OF THE
DRONES WERE SPOTTED
SOME OF THE DRONES WERE SPOTTED
AS HIGH AS 10,000 FEET.
JUST YESTERDAY, A MED-EVAC
HELICOPTER, WITH A PATIENT ON
BOARD, HAD TO DODGE A DRONE
NEAR FRESNO, CALIFORNIA.
FRESNO, CALIFORNIA. >> I
THINK PEOPLE JUST NEED TO
>> I THINK PEOPLE JUST NEED TO
REMEMBER THAT WE'RE UP IN THE
REMEMBER THAT WE'RE UP
IN THE AIR AS WELL.
AIR AS WELL. IT'S NOT
A TOY THAT THEY'RE
IT'S NOT A TOY THAT THEY'RE
FLYING AROUND, YOU KNOW, IT'S UP
IN OUR SPACE, AND IF IT WERE TO
CONTACT THE AIRCRAFT, IT WOULD
CREATE A PRETTY CATASTROPHIC
CREATE A PRETTY
CATASTROPHIC SITUATION.
SITUATION. >> Ifill:
ALSO THIS WEEK, FOUR
>> Ifill: ALSO THIS WEEK, FOUR
COMMERCIAL FLIGHTS SPOTTED
DRONES NEARBY, AS THEY CAME IN
DRONES NEARBY, AS THEY CAME
IN TO LAND AT NEWARK-LIBERTY
TO LAND AT NEWARK-LIBERTY
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT IN NEW
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
IN NEW JERSEY.
JERSEY. >> Woodruff:
WALL STREET SPENT
>> Woodruff: WALL STREET SPENT
THE DAY LOOKING FOR DIRECTION,
BUT DIDN'T FIND MUCH.
BUT DIDN'T FIND MUCH. THE DOW
JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED 5 POINTS TO CLOSE NEAR
GAINED 5 POINTS TO
CLOSE NEAR 17,410.
17,410. WHILE THE
NASDAQ FELL ABOUT 11
WHILE THE NASDAQ FELL ABOUT 11
POINTS, AND THE S&P 500 SLIPPED
POINTS, AND THE S&P
500 SLIPPED 2.
2. >> Ifill: AFTER 45 YEARS, THE
>> Ifill: AFTER 45 YEARS, THE
PBS MAINSTAY "SESAME STREET" IS
GETTING A NEW PARTNER-- HBO.
THE PRODUCERS OF THE ICONIC
CHILDREN'S PROGRAM ANNOUNCED THE
CHILDREN'S PROGRAM ANNOUNCED
THE FIVE-YEAR DEAL TODAY.
FIVE-YEAR DEAL TODAY. IT CALLS
FOR NEW EPISODES TO AIR
IT CALLS FOR NEW EPISODES TO AIR
FIRST ON HBO AND THEN, NINE
MONTHS LATER, ON PBS STATIONS.
>> Woodruff: AND, IT'S
CONFIRMED: PRESIDENT WARREN G.
HARDING DID, INDEED, HAVE A
DAUGHTER OUT OF WEDLOCK.
"THE NEW YORK TIMES" REPORTS
D.N.A TESTING NOW PROVES THE
29th PRESIDENT FATHERED A CHILD
BY A MISTRESS, NAN BRITTON,
BEFORE HE WAS ELECTED.
BEFORE HE WAS ELECTED. THE
DAUGHTER, ELIZABETH ANN
THE DAUGHTER, ELIZABETH ANN
BLAESING, DIED IN 2005.
BLAESING, DIED IN 2005. >>
Ifill: STILL TO COME ON THE
>> Ifill: STILL TO
COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
NEWSHOUR: THE FIGHT
TO TAKE DOWN THE
THE FIGHT TO TAKE DOWN THE
ISLAMIC STATE AND STOP SEX
ISLAMIC STATE AND
STOP SEX SLAVERY.
SLAVERY. THE DAMAGE
DONE BY WILDFIRES IN
THE DAMAGE DONE BY
WILDFIRES IN THE WEST.
THE WEST. AND MUCH MORE.
>> Woodruff: THE FIGHT AGAINST
THE ISLAMIC STATE HIT ANOTHER
SETBACK TODAY, AS THE EXTREMIST
GROUP CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY FOR
GROUP CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY
FOR THE DEATHS OF MORE THAN 60
THE DEATHS OF MORE THAN 60
PEOPLE IN A BAGHDAD TRUCK
PEOPLE IN A BAGHDAD
TRUCK BOMBING.
BOMBING. IT'S ONE
OF THE DEADLIEST
IT'S ONE OF THE DEADLIEST
ATTACKS IN THE IRAQI CAPITAL IN
ATTACKS IN THE IRAQI
CAPITAL IN YEARS.
YEARS. JUST AFTER
DAWN, A TRUCK BOMB
JUST AFTER DAWN, A TRUCK BOMB
RIPPED THROUGH THE JAMEELA FOOD
NEIGHBORHOOD KNOWN AS SADR CITY.
>> (translated): IT WAS
AROUND
AROUND 6:00, AND THE MARKET WAS
VERY
6:00, AND THE MARKET
WAS VERY CROWDED.
CROWDED. HERE BASICALLY
EVERYDAY FROM
HERE BASICALLY EVERYDAY FROM
FIVE TO SEVEN IS CROWDED,
ESPECIALLY AT THIS SIDE.
ESPECIALLY AT THIS SIDE. THERE
ARE MANY BOMBINGS IN THE
THERE ARE MANY BOMBINGS IN THE
WORLD, BUT THAT LIKE THIS AT
SUCH A CROWDED PLACE
IS QUITE RARE.
RARE. THIS IS WHY
IT'S SUCH A TRAGEDY
THIS IS WHY IT'S SUCH A TRAGEDY
>> Woodruff: SMOKE ROSE FROM THE
>> Woodruff: SMOKE ROSE
FROM THE CHARRED DEBRIS,
CHARRED DEBRIS, AS RESCUERS
PULLED BODIES FROM
AS RESCUERS PULLED BODIES
FROM THE WRECKAGE.
THE WRECKAGE. AND AT
A NEARBY HOSPITAL,
AND AT A NEARBY HOSPITAL,
FAMILIES TENDED TO WOUNDED
FAMILIES TENDED TO
WOUNDED RELATIVES.
RELATIVES. THE
ISLAMIC STATE GROUP,
THE ISLAMIC STATE GROUP,
DOMINATED BY SUNNI EXTREMISTS,
CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY.
CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY. IN A
SOCIAL MEDIA POST, IT SAID:
IN A SOCIAL MEDIA POST, IT SAID:
SHIITES MUST, "EXPERIENCE THE
SAME HARM AS THEIR BOMBARDMENTS
CAUSE TO OUR MUSLIM PEOPLE."
THE ATTACK CAME AS IRAQI PRIME
MINISTER HAIDER AL-ABADI IS
UNDER PRESSURE TO DRIVE BACK THE
UNDER PRESSURE TO DRIVE
BACK THE MILITANTS.
MILITANTS. HE'S PUSHED
REFMS TORHROUGH
HE'S PUSHED REFMS TORHROUGH
PARLIAMENT THIS WEEK TO ROOT OUT
PARLIAMENT THIS WEEK TO ROOT
OUT CORRUPTION AND BOLSTER THE
CORRUPTION AND BOLSTER
THE MILITARY.
MILITARY. MEANWHILE,
THE U.S. MILITARY
MEANWHILE, THE U.S. MILITARY
SAYS IT LAUNCHED ITS FIRST
MANNED AIR STRIKES FROM TURKEY
YESTERDAY ON ISLAMIC STATE
YESTERDAY ON ISLAMIC
STATE TARGETS IN SYRIA.
TARGETS IN SYRIA. BUT THE
TURKISH FOREIGN MINISTER
BUT THE TURKISH FOREIGN MINISTER
DISPUTED THAT STATEMENT TODAY.
>> (translated):
YESTERDAY,
YESTERDAY, U.S. FORCES DID NOT
HIT ISLAMIC
U.S. FORCES DID NOT HIT ISLAMIC
STATE TARGETS AFTER TAKING OFF
STATE TARGETS AFTER
TAKING OFF FROM TURKEY.
FROM TURKEY. AIR STRIKES
AGAINST ISLAMIC
AIR STRIKES AGAINST ISLAMIC
STATE ARE CURRENTLY BEING
CARRIED OUT FROM OTHER COUNTRIES
IN THE REGION, LIKE JORDAN.
IN THE REGION, LIKE JORDAN. JETS
TAKING OFF FROM TURKEY HAVE
JETS TAKING OFF FROM TURKEY HAVE
NOT YET JOINED THE OPERATION,
THOSE ARE RECONNAISSANCE
THOSE ARE
RECONNAISSANCE FLIGHTS.
FLIGHTS. >> Woodruff:
TURKEY HAS STEPPED
>> Woodruff: TURKEY HAS STEPPED
UP ITS OWN INVOLVEMENT IN THE
FIGHT AGAINST ISIS, BUT THE
FOREIGN MINISTER SAID TODAY HIS
GOVERNMENT DOES NOT PLAN TO SEND
GOVERNMENT DOES NOT PLAN TO
SEND GROUND FORCES INTO SYRIA.
GROUND FORCES INTO SYRIA. NOW,
TO THE HUMAN TOLL EXACTED
NOW, TO THE HUMAN TOLL EXACTED
BY THE ISLAMIC STATE DURING ITS
RULE OVER PARTS OF IRAQ AND
RULE OVER PARTS OF
IRAQ AND SYRIA.
SYRIA. FOR THAT, WE
TURN TO "NEW YORK
FOR THAT, WE TURN TO "NEW
YORK TIMES" REPORTER, RUKMINI
TIMES" REPORTER, RUKMINI
CALLIMACHI, WHO WROTE TODAY OF A
BRUTAL, RITUALISTIC SEX SLAVE
TRADE THAT THE ISLAMIC STATE HAS
IMPOSED ON THOUSANDS WOMEN AND
IMPOSED ON THOUSANDS
WOMEN AND GIRLS.
GIRLS. THEY BELONG
TO THE YAZIDI SECT,
THEY BELONG TO THE YAZIDI SECT,
A PERSECUTED RELIGIOUS MINORITY.
AND RUKMINI JOINS ME FROM
NORTHERN IRAQ VIA SKYPE.
RUKMINI, WELCOME.
RUKMINI, WELCOME. I THINK
PEOPLE CAN TELL FROM THE
I THINK PEOPLE CAN TELL FROM THE
SUBJECT THAT THIS IS A REALLY
HORRIFIC THING THAT YOU WERE
HORRIFIC THING THAT YOU
WERE WRITING ABOUT.
WRITING ABOUT. I JUST
WANT TO WARN OUR VIEWERS
I JUST WANT TO WARN OUR VIEWERS
BEFORE WE GO ANY FURTHER, BUT
REMIND US HOW THIS ALL STARTED
JUST ABOUT EXACTLY A YEAR AGO
WHEN ISIS WAS ON THE MOVE IN
WHEN ISIS WAS ON
THE MOVE IN IRAQ.
IRAQ. >> IT WAS
EXACTLY A YEAR AGO ON
>> IT WAS EXACTLY A YEAR AGO
ON AUGUST 3, 2013, ISIS HAS
AUGUST 3, 2013, ISIS HAS
RECENTLY TAKEN THE SECURED MOSUL
AND THEY THEN SET THEIR SIGHTS
AND THEY THEN SET THEIR
SIGHTS JUST TO THE NORTH.
JUST TO THE NORTH. THEY
INVADED THE MOUNT.
THEY INVADED THE MOUNT. PEOPLE
ASSUMED INITIALLY IT WAS
PEOPLE ASSUMED INITIALLY IT WAS
JUST ANOTHER PART OF THEIR
EXPANSION STRATEGY, BUT FROM THE
VERY BEGINNING IT WAS CLEAR THAT
THERE WAS SOMETHING ELSE GOING
THERE WAS SOMETHING
ELSE GOING ON.
ON. SURVIVORS TELL
US THAT MEN AND
SURVIVORS TELL US THAT MEN AND
WOMEN WERE IMMEDIATELY SEPARATED
WITHIN THE FIRST HOUR, AND THE
FIGHTERS ARRIVED WITH FLEETS OF
BUSES AND EMPTY TRUCKS AND THAT
THEY WERE USED TO HERD THE WOMEN
THEY WERE USED TO
HERD THE WOMEN AWAY.
AWAY. SO THEY CAME
WITH A PLAN TO TAKE
SO THEY CAME WITH A PLAN TO TAKE
THE WOMEN AND GIRLS FOR THE
SEXUAL CONQUEST THAT THEN
SEXUAL CONQUEST
THAT THEN FOLLOWED.
FOLLOWED. >> Woodruff:
WHAT DID THEY DO
>> Woodruff: WHAT DID
THEY DO WITH THESE WOMEN?
WITH THESE WOMEN? YOU WRITE
HOW THEY TRANSPORTED
YOU WRITE HOW THEY TRANSPORTED
THEM AND TOOK THEM TO DIFFERENT
THEM AND TOOK THEM TO
DIFFERENT LOCATIONS.
LOCATIONS. HOW DID
THEY TREAT THEM?
HOW DID THEY TREAT THEM? >>
WHAT HAPPENED IS THEY WERE
>> WHAT HAPPENED IS THEY WERE
INITIALLY TAKEN TO A SERIES OF,
IF YOU WILL, HOLDING PENS.
IF YOU WILL, HOLDING PENS. MOST
OF THEM WERE IN THE CITY OF
MOST OF THEM WERE IN THE CITY OF
MOSUL INSIDE THE GALAXY WEDDING
HALL, INSIDE THE MINISTRY OF
YOUTH, INSIDE A FORMER PRISON.
AND THE WOMEN SAY THEY ARRIVED
AT THESE ENORMOUS HALLS.
AT THESE ENORMOUS HALLS. THEY
WERE ALREADY OUTFITTED WITH
THEY WERE ALREADY OUTFITTED WITH
PLATES WITH ACCOUTREMENTS, WITH
FOOD, SO THEY HAD PLANNED TO PUT
LARGE NUMBERS OF PEOPLE THERE.
AND THEY VERY SOON AFTER ISIS
FIGHTERS SHOWED UP AND THEY
BEGAN DOING A VERY DETAILED
SURVEY OF THE PEOPLE IN THEIR
SURVEY OF THE PEOPLE
IN THEIR POSSESSION.
POSSESSION. THE WOMEN
WERE ASKED TO GIVE
THE WOMEN WERE ASKED TO GIVE
THEIR FIRST, MIDDLE AND LAST
NAME, THEIR VILLAGE, THEIR
MARITAL STATUS, THE NUMBER OF
MARITAL STATUS, THE NUMBER
OF CHILDREN THEY HAVE.
CHILDREN THEY HAVE. AND
THEN THEY WERE ASKED
AND THEN THEY WERE ASKED
INCREDIBLY PERSONAL QUESTIONS,
SUCH AS HOW LONG AGO DID YOU
HAVE YOUR LAST PERIOD, AND THEY
THEN DIVINED THAT THE FIGHTERS
WERE TRYING TO FIGURE OUT IF
THEY WERE PREGNANT OR NOT
BECAUSE THERE IS A SHARIA RULING
ABOUT NOT BEING ABLE TO HAVE SEX
WITH A PREGNANT SLAISM FROM
THERE THE WOMEN WERE FURTHER
SEPARATED INTO YOUNG AND OLD,
BEAUTIFUL AND UNATTRACTIVE AND
IN BATCHES THEY WERE TAKEN AWAY
AND THEN BOUGHT AND THEN FURTHER
SOLD TO FIGHTERS WHO USE THEM AS
SOLD TO FIGHTERS WHO USE
THEM AS SEX SLAVES.
SEX SLAVES. >> Woodruff:
AND YOU HAD SOME
>> Woodruff: AND YOU HAD
SOME I'M SURE VERY DIFFICULT
I'M SURE VERY DIFFICULT
CONVERSATIONS WITH THESE WOMEN
WHO WERE ABLE TO ESCAPE THE ISIS
WHO WERE ABLE TO ESCAPE
THE ISIS FIGHTERS.
FIGHTERS. WHAT KINDS
OF THINGS DID THEY
WHAT KINDS OF THINGS
DID THEY TELL YOU?
TELL YOU? >> YOU KNOW,
JUDY, I'VE DONE
>> YOU KNOW, JUDY, I'VE DONE
INTERVIEWS WITH RAPE VICTIMS ALL
OVER THE WORLD IN CONGO, IN
GUINEA, IN MALI, AND THESE ARE
SOME OF THE HARDEST INTERVIEWS
SOME OF THE HARDEST
INTERVIEWS THAT I'VE DONE.
THAT I'VE DONE. THE
HORRORS THAT THESE WOMEN
THE HORRORS THAT THESE WOMEN
WERE FORCED TO ENDURE REALLY
CHALLENGED THE IMAGINATION.
WHAT THEY TALK ABOUT IS HOW
SYSTEMATIC THE RAPE WAS AND HOW
THEY TRIED TO, YOU KNOW, PROTEST
AND THEY TRIED TO ASK THE
FIGHTERS WHY ARE YOU DOING THIS
FIGHTERS WHY ARE YOU DOING
THIS TO ME, AND EVERYTHING WAS
TO ME, AND EVERYTHING WAS
CLOAKED IN A RELIGIOUS
JUSTIFICATION.
JUSTIFICATION. THEY TOLD
THEM, WE ARE INFIDELS.
THEY TOLD THEM, WE ARE
INFIDELS. YOU ARE UNBELIEVERS.
YOU ARE UNBELIEVERS.
THEY ARE NOT MUSLIM.
THEY ARE NOT MUSLIM. THEY
DO BELIEVE IN SEVEN ANGELS
THEY DO BELIEVE IN SEVEN ANGELS
AND ARE THEREFORE CONSIDERED
POLYTHEISTS BY ISIS.
POLYTHEISTS BY ISIS. THE
FIGHTERS EXPLAINED TO THEM
THE FIGHTERS EXPLAINED TO THEM
BECAUSE OF THEIR LACK OF FAITH,
THE KORAN GIVES US THE RIGHT TO
RAPE YOU, AND WHATEVER WE DO IS
NOT ONLY JUSTIFIED IN SCRIPTURE,
IT IS CONSIDERED VIRTUOUS.
IT IS CONSIDERED VIRTUOUS. THE
MOST INTERVIEWS TO DO WERE
THE MOST INTERVIEWS TO DO WERE
WITH THE VERY YOUNG WOMEN, ONE
WAS 12, ANOTHER WAS 15, AND THEY
DESCRIBED HOW THE FIGHTERS GOT
ON THE FLOOR AND PRAYED BEFORE
GETTING ON TOP OF THEM AND
RAPING THEM, AND THEN AFTER THE
RAPE, THEY WOULD GO AND TAKE A
SHOWER AND THEN PRAY AGAIN.
SO THE ACTS OF THE SEXUAL
ASSAULT ITSELF, THE ACTS OF RAPE
WERE BOOK ENDED IN AN ACT OF
WERE BOOK ENDED IN AN
ACT OF RELIGIOUSNESS.
RELIGIOUSNESS. >>
Woodruff: THIS WAS
>> Woodruff: THIS WAS REPEATED.
REPEATED. THIS WENT
ON FOR MONTHS AND
THIS WENT ON FOR
MONTHS AND MONTHS.
MONTHS. HUNDREDS
OF THESE WOMEN ARE
HUNDREDS OF THESE WOMEN ARE
STILL BEING HELD IN CAPTIVITY.
THIS IS STILL HAPPENING TO THEM.
JUST QUICKLY, RUKMINI, YOU WROTE
ABOUT ONE WOMAN WHOSE CAPTOR
ABOUT ONE WOMAN WHOSE
CAPTOR GAVE HER A PAPER OF
GAVE HER A PAPER
OF EMANCIPATION.
EMANCIPATION. WHAT HAPPENED?
WHAT HAPPENED? >> THIS
IS WHAT'S REALLY CURIOUS
>> THIS IS WHAT'S REALLY
CURIOUS ABOUT THIS, JUDY.
ABOUT THIS, JUDY. IT
REALLY REMINDS YOU OF WHAT
IT REALLY REMINDS YOU OF WHAT
HAPPENED IN THE AMERICAN SOUTH
IN THE PREABOLITION TIMES.
IN THE PREABOLITION TIMES. THERE
IS A SCRIPTURE FOR RELEASE
THERE IS A SCRIPTURE FOR RELEASE
OF SLAVES CONSIDERED VERY
OF SLAVES CONSIDERED
VERY VIRTUOUS.
VIRTUOUS. SO WHAT WE
FOUND THAT WAS IN THE
SO WHAT WE FOUND THAT WAS IN THE
CASE WHEN A WOMAN WAS BOUGHT BY
A SUICIDE BOMBER, AT THE MOMNTE
WHEN THE SUICIDE BOMBER WAS
GETTING READY TO SET OFF ON HIS
FINAL MISSION, IN TWO CASES THAT
I SPOKE TO, THAT I INTERVIEWED,
THE WOMEN WERE GIVEN A
CERTIFICATE OF EMANCIPATION AND
THEY WERE FREED, AND THEY WERE,
IN THE CASE OF ONE OF THE GIRL,
I WAS ACTUALLY ABLE TO SEE THE
CERTIFICATE AND WE WERE ALLOWED
TO PHOTOGRAPH IT, IT GAVE HER
BASICALLY THE RIGHT TO BE A FREE
BASICALLY THE RIGHT TO
BE A FREE MUSLIM WOMAN.
MUSLIM WOMAN. IT SAYS
THAT SHE IS UNDER THE
IT SAYS THAT SHE IS UNDER THE
RULE OF THE ISLAMIC STATE AND
HAS ALL OF THE DUTIES AND
RESPONSIBILITIES OF BEING A
RESPONSIBILITIES OF
BEING A MUSLIM WOMAN.
MUSLIM WOMAN. AND THIS
CERTIFICATE THAT SHE
AND THIS CERTIFICATE THAT SHE
GOT LAMINATED ALLOWED HER TO
PASS THE CHECKPOINTS THAT
FINALLY ALLOWED HER TO GO TO
SAFELY AND RETURN TO HER FAMILY
LAST MONTH HERE IN IRAQ.
LAST MONTH HERE IN IRAQ. >>
Woodruff: THERE IS SO MUCH
>> Woodruff: THERE IS SO
MUCH MORE TO THIS STORY.
MORE TO THIS STORY. IT IS
JUST INCREDIBLY DISTURBING
IT IS JUST INCREDIBLY DISTURBING
AND WE REALLY ONLY HAVE BEGUN TO
AND WE REALLY ONLY HAVE
BEGUN TO TOUCH ON IT.
TOUCH ON IT. I HIGHLY
RECOMMEND IT TO ANYONE,
I HIGHLY RECOMMEND IT TO ANYONE,
TO EVERYONE TO READ MORE OF
TO EVERYONE TO
READ MORE OF THIS.
THIS. RUKMINI
CALLIMACHI JOINING US
RUKMINI CALLIMACHI
JOINING US FROM IRAQ.
FROM IRAQ. WE THANK YOU.
WE THANK YOU. >> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: 12,000 FIREFIGHTERS
ARE BATTLING 14 ACTIVE WILDFIRES
IN CALIFORNIA, AND THE STATE,
WHICH IS IN ITS FOURTH YEAR OF
DROUGHT, IS ON TRACK TO HAVE ONE
OF ITS WORST FIRE SEASONS EVER.
THE NEWSHOUR'S CAT WISE SPENT
TIME THIS WEEK IN ONE OF THE
HARDEST HIT AREAS: LAKE COUNTY,
NORTH OF SAN FRANCISCO.
NORTH OF SAN FRANCISCO. >>
IS THERE A FIRE BY YOU?
>> IS THERE A FIRE BY YOU?
SOMEONE JUST CALLED ONE IN.
THEY SAID THERE ARE FLAMES AND
THEY SAID THERE ARE
FLAMES AND BLACK SMOKE.
BLACK SMOKE. >> Reporter:
RANCHER LONNE SLOAN
>> Reporter: RANCHER LONNE SLOAN
IS KEEPING A CLOSE EYE ON THE
IS KEEPING A CLOSE EYE ON
THE HORIZON THESE DAYS.
HORIZON THESE DAYS. FOR THE
PAST WEEK, SLOAN AND HER
FOR THE PAST WEEK, SLOAN AND HER
HUSBAND LARRY HAVE BEEN ON THE
FRONTLINES OF WILDFIRES RAGING
FRONTLINES OF WILDFIRES
RAGING ACROSS CALIFORNIA.
ACROSS CALIFORNIA. THEIR
340 ACRE RANCH, NEAR THE
THEIR 340 ACRE RANCH, NEAR THE
TOWN OF LOWER LAKE, WENT UP IN
FLAMES LAST WEDNESDAY DURING ONE
OF THE STATES BIGGEST FIRES SO
FAR THIS YEAR CALLED THE ROCKY
FAR THIS YEAR CALLED
THE ROCKY FIRE.
FIRE. >> THIS WAS
OUR EQUIPMENT SHED.
>> THIS WAS OUR EQUIPMENT SHED.
THE FIRE STARTED OVER THE HILL.
>> Reporter: THE SLOANS, WHO
MANAGED TO SAVE THEIR HOME WITH
THE HELP OF NEARBY FIRE CREWS,
ESTIMATE THEY LOST ABOUT
$150,000 DOLLARS OF EQUIPMENT,
MOST OF IT UNINSURED.
MOST OF IT UNINSURED. >>
THIS WAS MY HORSE TRAILER
>> THIS WAS MY HORSE
TRAILER THAT IS MELTED.
THAT IS MELTED. I RIDE
HORSES PROFESSIONALLY IN
I RIDE HORSES
PROFESSIONALLY IN PARADES
PARADES >> Reporter:
THEIR PROPERTY,
>> Reporter: THEIR PROPERTY,
LIKE SO MANY IN THE AREA, IS NOW
A MOONSCAPE TOTALLY DEVOID OF
A MOONSCAPE TOTALLY
DEVOID OF ANY VEGETATION.
ANY VEGETATION. A SIGN
OF THE INTENSITY OF THE
A SIGN OF THE INTENSITY OF THE
BLAZE THAT WENT THROUGH HERE.
THE ROCKY FIRE BEGAN JULY 29th
AND BURNED NEARLY 70,000 ACRES
AND BURNED NEARLY 70,000
ACRES AND 43 HOMES.
AND 43 HOMES. ITS
IS NOW ALMOST FULLY
ITS IS NOW ALMOST
FULLY CONTAINED.
CONTAINED. BUT ON
SUNDAY, A NEW WILDFIRE,
BUT ON SUNDAY, A NEW WILDFIRE,
CALLED THE JERUSALEM FIRE BROKE
OUT NEARBY AND QUICKLY BEGAN
OUT NEARBY AND QUICKLY
BEGAN SPREADING.
SPREADING. IT'S ONLY
30% CONTAINED, AND HAS
IT'S ONLY 30% CONTAINED, AND
HAS BURNED 20,000 ACRES.
BURNED 20,000 ACRES. THE
FIRES, WHICH HAVE NOW
THE FIRES, WHICH HAVE NOW
MERGED, ARE BURNING IN HILLY
TERRAIN WITH HEAVY BRUSH KNOWN
TERRAIN WITH HEAVY BRUSH
KNOWN AS CHAPARRAL.
AS CHAPARRAL. HIGH
TEMPERATURES, UNPREDICTABLE
HIGH TEMPERATURES, UNPREDICTABLE
WINDS, AND EXTREMELY DRY
CONDITIONS IN THE AREA HAVE BEEN
A BAD MIX FOR FIREFIGHTERS.
>> WE'VE SEEN SOME PRETTY
DRAMATIC FIRE BEHAVIOR.
DRAMATIC FIRE BEHAVIOR. >>
Reporter: CAPTAIN STEVE
>> Reporter: CAPTAIN STEVE
KAUFMANN IS A FIREFIGHTER AND
PUBLIC INFORMATION OFFICER FROM
VENTURA COUNTY WHO HAS BEEN
ASSISTING ON THE GROUND FOR THE
LAST TWO WEEKS.FUELS ARE BONE
DRY AND THERE'S NO MOISTURE
WHATSOEVER IN MOST OF OUR FUELS,
IS ITS LIKE THEY'RE EXPLOSIVE.
IT'S ALMOST LIKE THEY ALL CATCH
IT'S ALMOST LIKE THEY
ALL CATCH FIRE AT ONCE.
FIRE AT ONCE. I'VE
BEEN A FIREFIGHTER FOR
I'VE BEEN A FIREFIGHTER FOR
ALMOST 20 YEARS, I'VE HEARD 30-
YEAR FIREFIGHTERS AND 40-YEAR
FIREFIGHTERS SAY THEY'VE NEVER
SEEN THIS KIND OF FIRE BEHAVIOR
SEEN THIS KIND OF FIRE
BEHAVIOR IN THEIR CAREER.
IN THEIR CAREER. >>
Reporter: CALIFORNIA, LIKE
>> Reporter: CALIFORNIA, LIKE
MANY STATES THROUGHOUT THE WEST,
MANY STATES THROUGHOUT THE
WEST, IS NO STRANGER TO WIRE
IS NO STRANGER TO WIRE BUT
THE ONGOING DROUGHT IS
BUT THE ONGOING DROUGHT IS
CREATING CONDITIONS THAT FIRE
CREWS ARE HAVING A TOUGH TIME
MANAGING WITH THEIR STANDARD
MANAGING WITH THEIR
STANDARD TOOLS.
TOOLS. >> FIRES ARE
BURNING INTENSE, SO
>> FIRES ARE BURNING INTENSE,
SO INTENSE THAT THEY'RE GOING
INTENSE THAT THEY'RE GOING
BEYOND THE CAPABILITIES OF THE
BEYOND THE CAPABILITIES
OF THE MODELS.
MODELS. >> Reporter:
JEFF SHELTON IS A
>> Reporter: JEFF SHELTON IS
A FIRE BEHAVIOR SPECIALIST.
FIRE BEHAVIOR SPECIALIST.
WE MET UP WITH HIM AT THE
COMMAND POST FOR THE ROCKY AND
COMMAND POST FOR THE ROCKY
AND JERUSALEM FIRES.
JERUSALEM FIRES. SHELTON
USES A SOPHISTICATED
SHELTON USES A SOPHISTICATED
SOFTWARE PROGRAM THAT MODELS
FIRE BEHAVIOR SO HE CAN KEEP
FIRE CREWS INFORMED ABOUT WHAT
FIRE CREWS INFORMED ABOUT
WHAT THE FIRE MIGHT DO.
THE FIRE MIGHT DO. BUT
SHELTON SAYS DURING THE
BUT SHELTON SAYS DURING THE
INITIAL OUTBREAK OF THE ROCKY
FIRE HIS MODELS, IN SOME CASES,
WEREN'T REFLECTING THE REALITY
WEREN'T REFLECTING THE
REALITY ON THE GROUND.
ON THE GROUND. SO THIS
IS THE PERIMETER OF THE
SO THIS IS THE PERIMETER
OF THE FIRE ON JULY 31st.
FIRE ON JULY 31st. WHAT DID
THE MODELS TELL YOU WAS
WHAT DID THE MODELS TELL
YOU WAS GOING TO HAPPEN?
GOING TO HAPPEN? >> THE
MODELS SAID THERE WAS A
>> THE MODELS SAID THERE WAS A
CHANCE IN SEVEN DAYS THAT IT
WOULD GET TO THESE ZONES.
WOULD GET TO THESE ZONES. THESE
OTHER COLORS OUT HERE...
THESE OTHER COLORS OUT HERE...
WHAT HAPPENED WAS IN FIVE HOURS
IT GOT MUCH FURTHER OUT.
IT GOT MUCH FURTHER
OUT. >> Reporter: WOW
>> Reporter: WOW >>
IT DID WHAT IT WAS
>> IT DID WHAT IT WAS
POTENTIALLY SUPPOSED TO DO IN
SEVEN DAYS, IN FIVE HOURS.
SEVEN DAYS, IN FIVE HOURS. >>
Reporter: TO HIGHLIGHT WHY
>> Reporter: TO HIGHLIGHT WHY
THESE FIRES ARE PROVING TO BE SO
DESTRUCTIVE, SHELTON TOOK US TO
AN AREA THAT HAD JUST BURNED.
SO IF THIS HAD BEEN A NORMAL
FIRE YOU WOULDN'T SEE SUCH
FIRE YOU WOULDN'T SEE
SUCH DEVASTATION RIGHT?
DEVASTATION RIGHT? >> THE
INTENSITY OF THIS FIRE
>> THE INTENSITY OF
THIS FIRE WAS IMMENSE.
WAS IMMENSE. >> Reporter:
HOW LONG WILL IT
>> Reporter: HOW LONG WILL IT
TAKE TO GET BACK TO A NORMAL
TAKE TO GET BACK TO
A NORMAL LANDSCAPE?
LANDSCAPE? >> 10 TO 15 YEARS.
>> 10 TO 15 YEARS. >>
Reporter: WHILE FIREFIGHTERS
>> Reporter: WHILE FIREFIGHTERS
CONTINUE CONTAINMENT EFFORTS
WITH THE BRUSH FIRES HERE IN
LAKE COUNTY, MANY OF THE STATES
MOST ACTIVE FIRES ARE FOREST
FIRES IN THE MOUNTAINS.
FIRES IN THE MOUNTAINS. AND
IN RECENT YEARS, THERE'S
AND IN RECENT YEARS, THERE'S
BEEN A BIG SHIFT IN THE DURATION
AND INTENSITY OF THOSE FIRES AS
AND INTENSITY OF
THOSE FIRES AS WELL.
WELL. HUGH SAFFORST
WITH THE U.S. FORT
HUGH SAFFORST WITH THE U.S. FORT
SERVICE WHO STUDIES THE IMPACTS
SERVICE WHO STUDIES THE
IMPACTS OF WILDFIRES.
OF WILDFIRES. AND A
CHANGING CLIMATE, IN THE
AND A CHANGING CLIMATE, IN THE
SIERRA NEVADA MOUNTAINS NEAR
SIERRA NEVADA MOUNTAINS
NEAR LAKE TAHOE.
LAKE TAHOE. AT THE
SPOT OF A RECENT FIRE,
AT THE SPOT OF A RECENT FIRE,
SAFFORD POINTED OUT A TROUBLING
SAFFORD POINTED OUT
A TROUBLING TREND.
TREND. MANY TREES
THAT WOULD NORMALLY
MANY TREES THAT WOULD NORMALLY
WITHSTAND FOREST FIRES, ARE NOW
DYING, WEAKENED BY THE DROUGHT.
>> WE'VE GOT WHAT WE WOULD CALL
>> WE'VE GOT WHAT WE WOULD
CALL A HIGH SEVERITY PATCH.
A HIGH SEVERITY PATCH. A PATCH
OF FIRE THAT BURNED VERY
A PATCH OF FIRE THAT BURNED
VERY HOT AND KILLED MOST OF THE
HOT AND KILLED MOST
OF THE CANOPY TREES.
CANOPY TREES. WHAT WE'RE
HAVING THESE DAYS IS
WHAT WE'RE HAVING THESE DAYS IS
THIS KIND OF EFFECT IN A VERY
THIS KIND OF EFFECT IN
A VERY MASSIVE SCALE.
MASSIVE SCALE. THESE
SPECIES ARE REALLY ADAPTED
THESE SPECIES ARE REALLY ADAPTED
TO DROUGHT CONDITIONS, BUT WHEN
YOU EXPAND THAT SUMMER DROUGHT
INTO THE WHOLE DARN YEAR FOR
FOUR STRAIGHT YEARS, EVEN THESE
TREES HAVE A HECK OF A TIME
TREES HAVE A HECK OF A
TIME DEALING WITH IT.
DEALING WITH IT. >>
Reporter: BUT SAFFORD SAYS
>> Reporter: BUT SAFFORD SAYS
IT'S NOT JUST THE DROUGHT THAT'S
IT'S NOT JUST THE DROUGHT
THAT'S IMPACTING THE TREES.
IMPACTING THE TREES. PAST
FOREST MANAGEMENT POLICIES
PAST FOREST MANAGEMENT POLICIES
HAVE ALSO PLAYED A ROLE.
HAVE ALSO PLAYED A ROLE. >>
FOR 100 YEARS, MORE OR LESS,
>> FOR 100 YEARS, MORE OR LESS,
WE'VE BEEN PUTTING OUT ALMOST
ALL FIRES IN THIS FOREST TYPE
AND THIS SYSTEM THAT WAS
CHARACTERIZED BY A LOT OF FIRES
CHARACTERIZED BY A LOT
OF FIRES HISTORICALLY.
HISTORICALLY. SO WHAT
WE'VE GOT NOW ON THIS
SO WHAT WE'VE GOT NOW ON THIS
SITE IS A JUNGLE OF FUELS.
AND ITS JUST SIMPLE PHYSICS
AND ITS JUST SIMPLE
PHYSICS RIGHT?
RIGHT? WHEN YOU BUILD
A BIGGER PILE OF
WHEN YOU BUILD A BIGGER PILE OF
WOOD IT MAKES A BIGGER FIRE WHEN
WOOD IT MAKES A BIGGER
FIRE WHEN YOU LIGHT IT.
YOU LIGHT IT. >>
Reporter: IN FACT, A NEW
>> Reporter: IN FACT, A NEW
REPORT SAYS THAT THE FOREST
SERVICE, FOR THE FIRST TIME IN
THE AGENCY'S HISTORY, IS NOW
SPENDING MORE THAN HALF ITS
YEARLY BUDGET BATTLING
YEARLY BUDGET
BATTLING WILDFIRES.
WILDFIRES. BACK IN LAKE COUNTY,
BACK IN LAKE COUNTY,
FIREFIGHTERS ARE FOCUSING
LARGELY ON SAVING PERSONAL
LARGELY ON SAVING
PERSONAL PROPERTY.
PROPERTY. A TOUGH JOB
WHEN THE FIRES ARE
A TOUGH JOB WHEN THE
FIRES ARE SO EXTREME.
SO EXTREME. >> IT'S
NO SECRET THAT AS OUR
>> IT'S NO SECRET THAT AS OUR
SOCIETY GROWS BIGGER, WE MOVE
INTO MORE RURAL LOCATIONS.
INTO MORE RURAL LOCATIONS. NOW
THAT WE HAVE HOUSES IN THESE
NOW THAT WE HAVE HOUSES IN THESE
RURAL LOCATIONS, WE FEEL A
RESPONSIBILITY TO GO IN THERE
AND TRY TO PROTECT IS AS BEST WE
AND TRY TO PROTECT
IS AS BEST WE CAN.
CAN. >> Reporter:
THE STATE REQUIRES
>> Reporter: THE STATE REQUIRES
THAT RESIDENTS LIVING IN RURAL
AREAS CREATE A DEFENSIBLE SPACE
BY CLEARING DEAD TREES AND BRUSH
100 FEET AROUND THEIR PROPERTY.
FIRE OFFICIALS SAY MANY IN LAKE
COUNTY HAVE FOLLOWED THOSE
COUNTY HAVE FOLLOWED
THOSE RULES.
RULES. BUT AS THE JERUSALEM FIRE
BUT AS THE JERUSALEM FIRE
CONTINUES TO GROW, MORE
EVACUATIONS COULD OCCUR IN THE
EVACUATIONS COULD OCCUR
IN THE COMING DAYS.
COMING DAYS. LONNE AND
LARRY SLOAN, WHO HAVE
LONNE AND LARRY SLOAN, WHO HAVE
LIVED ON THIS SAME PLOT OF LAND
FOR 40 YEARS, ARE PLANNING TO
FOR 40 YEARS, ARE PLANNING
TO STAY EVEN IF A NEW FIRE
STAY EVEN IF A NEW
FIRE APPROACHES.
APPROACHES. FOR NOW,
THEIR MAIN TASK IS
FOR NOW, THEIR MAIN TASK IS
ENSURING ALL THE SMOLDERING
STUMPS ON THEIR PROPERTY WON'T
STUMPS ON THEIR PROPERTY
WON'T CATCH FIRE AGAIN.
CATCH FIRE AGAIN. FOR THE
PBS NEWSHOUR, IM CAT
FOR THE PBS NEWSHOUR, IM CAT
WISE IN LAKE COUNTY, CALIFORNIA.
>> Woodruff: STAY WITH US,
COMING UP ON THE NEWSHOUR.
COMING UP ON THE NEWSHOUR. THE
CULTURAL SHIFT THAT CHANGED
THE CULTURAL SHIFT THAT
CHANGED THE DEMANDS OF MODERN
THE DEMANDS OF
MODERN PARENTHOOD.
PARENTHOOD. A NEW
PERSPECTIVE ON THE LIFE OF
A NEW PERSPECTIVE ON THE LIFE OF
RONALD REAGAN, THE POLITICIAN
AND THE PRAGMATIST.
AND THE PRAGMATIST. AND,
LOOKING TO THE NIGHT SKY
AND, LOOKING TO THE NIGHT SKY
FOR A STAR-STUDDED SHOW.
BUT FIRST, AN ONGOING FINANCIAL
CRISIS IN A U.S. TERRITORY.
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT CHRIS BURY
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT CHRIS
BURY LOOKS AT HOW PUERTO RICO'S
LOOKS AT HOW PUERTO RICO'S
GOVERNMENT DEBT BURDEN IS
CRIPPLING THE ISLAND'S ECONOMY,
AND SPURRING IT'S PEOPLE TO
AND SPURRING IT'S
PEOPLE TO LEAVE.
LEAVE. IT'S PART OF
OUR WEEKLY SERIES,
IT'S PART OF OUR WEEKLY SERIES,
"MAKING SENSE," WHICH AIRS EVERY
THURSDAY ON THE NEWSHOUR.
THURSDAY ON THE NEWSHOUR. >>
Reporter: FOR YARITZA LOZANO,
>> Reporter: FOR YARITZA LOZANO,
WHO OWNS A BAKERY IN SAN JUAN,
THE CAPITAL, THIS IS A TIME OF
THE CAPITAL, THIS IS A
TIME OF HIGH ANXIETY.
HIGH ANXIETY. THE
28-YEAR-OLD, LAID OFF FROM
THE 28-YEAR-OLD, LAID OFF FROM
HER JOB AS AN ART TEACHER,
TURNED HER PASSION FOR BAKING
INTO A BUSINESS ONLY A YEAR AGO.
NOW, PUERTO RICO'S DEBT CRISIS
IS TRIMMG HEINR PROFITS IN AN
IS TRIMMG HEINR PROFITS IN
AN ALREADY TROUBLED ECONOMY.
ALREADY TROUBLED ECONOMY.
>> MY MAJOR CONCERN IS OUR
>> MY MAJOR CONCERN
IS OUR CUSTOMERS.
CUSTOMERS. I WONDER
IF I AM RAISING MY
I WONDER IF I AM RAISING
MY PRICES TOO HIGH.
PRICES TOO HIGH. >>
Reporter: LOZANO IS RAISING
>> Reporter: LOZANO IS RAISING
HER PRICES BECAUSE THE CASH-
STRAPPED GOVERNMENT HAS
DRAMATICALLY HIKED SALES TAXES,
FROM 7% TO 11.5%, FAR HIGHER
THAN ANY IN THE UNITED STATES.
TAXES THAT LOZANO HAS TO PAY ON
SUGAR, EGGS, BUTTER AND FLOUR.
SO HER POPULAR RED VELVET
CUPCAKES ARE NOW SELLING FOR
THREE DOLLARS EACH, UP FROM
THREE DOLLARS EACH,
UP FROM $2.75.
$2.75. WHAT'S YOUR
CONCERABOUN T THE
WHAT'S YOUR CONCERABOUN
T THE TAXES GOING UP?
TAXES GOING UP? >> THAT
I HAVE TO KEEP RAISING
>> THAT I HAVE TO KEEP RAISING
MY PRICES AND EVENTUALLY LOSE
BUSINESS BECAUSE PEOPLE WON'T BE
BUSINESS BECAUSE PEOPLE WON'T
BE ABLE TO AFFORD ANYTHING.
ABLE TO AFFORD ANYTHING. >>
Reporter: FOR THE PEOPLE OF
>> Reporter: FOR THE PEOPLE OF
PUERTO RICO, ABOUT 3.5 MILLION
OF THEM, NEW AUSTERITY MEASURES
SUCH AS HIGHER SALES TAXES ARE
IMPOSING MORE ECONOMIC PAIN ON A
U.S. TERRITORY THAT ALREADY HAS
A POVERTY RATE NEARLY DOUBLE
THAT OF MISSISSIPPI, AMERICA'S
THAT OF MISSISSIPPI,
AMERICA'S POOREST STATE.
POOREST STATE. THE
GOVERNMENT RAISED TAXES TO
THE GOVERNMENT RAISED TAXES TO
HELP PAY BACK THE BILLIONS THAT
IT HAS BORROWED SELLING BONDS ON
IT HAS BORROWED SELLING BONDS
ON WALL STREET AND TO RESIDENTS
WALL STREET AND TO
RESIDENTS HERE.
HERE. THE BONDS,
POPULAR BECAUSE THEY
THE BONDS, POPULAR BECAUSE THEY
ARE TAX EXEMPT AND PAY A HIGHER
YIELD THAN OTHER MUNICIPAL DEBT,
AND MANY ARE BACKED BY A PUERTO-
RICAN GOVERNMENT GUARANTEE.
EYE DOCTOR RAUL FRANCESCHI
BOUGHT SOME TO SAVE FOR HIS
CHILDREN'S COLLEGE EDUCATION.
WHEN YOU BOUGHT THOSE BONDS, HOW
SAFE DID YOU THINK THEY WERE?
>> OH, WHEN I BOUGHT THEM, IT
>> OH, WHEN I BOUGHT THEM,
IT WAS PRETTY SAFE.
WAS PRETTY SAFE. IT WAS
IN THE CONSTITUTION OF
IT WAS IN THE CONSTITUTION OF
PUERTO RICO, YOU CANNOT STOP
PUERTO RICO, YOU CANNOT
STOP PAYING THE BONDS.
PAYING THE BONDS. >> Reporter:
BUT NOW PUERTO RICO
>> Reporter: BUT NOW PUERTO RICO
CLAIMS IT CANNOT PAY AT LEAST
SOME OF THE $72 BILLION OWED,
MORE DEBT PER CAPITA THAN ANY
MORE DEBT PER CAPITA
THAN ANY STATE.
STATE. FOR ALL INTENTS
AND PURPOSES IS
FOR ALL INTENTS AND PURPOSES IS
PUERTO RICO BANKRUPT RIGHT NOW?
>> I BELIEVE PUERTO RICO IS
>> I BELIEVE PUERTO
RICO IS BANKRUPT.
BANKRUPT. >> Reporter:
UNIVERSITY OFNOMISO
>> Reporter: UNIVERSITY OFNOMISO
SOTOMAYOR SAYS WALL STREET WAS
JUST AS EAGER TO LEND THE MONEY
AS GOVERNMENT LEADERS HERE WERE
AS GOVERNMENT LEADERS
HERE WERE TO BORROW IT.
TO BORROW IT. DID THE
PUERTO RICAN GOVERNMENT
DID THE PUERTO RICAN GOVERNMENT
BORROW TOO MUCH MONEY WITH
LITTLE THOUGHT TO PAYING IT
LITTLE THOUGHT TO
PAYING IT BACK?
BACK? >> WITHOUT
ANY QUESTION, YES.
>> WITHOUT ANY QUESTION, YES.
THE MONEY WAS AVAILABLE, THEY
TOOK IT, AND THEY WERE HAPPY TO
TOOK IT, AND THEY
WERE HAPPY TO GET IT.
GET IT. I'M SURE IN
THEIR MINDS, THEY
I'M SURE IN THEIR MINDS, THEY
WILL BE SAYING, "I'M GOING TO
BENEFIT FROM THE MONEY THAT I'LL
BE ABLE TO SPEND TODAY, AND THE
NEXT GOVERNOR WILL HAVE TO PAY
NEXT GOVERNOR WILL
HAVE TO PAY THE DEBT."
THE DEBT." >> Reporter:
KICK THE CAN DOWN
>> Reporter: KICK THE
CAN DOWN THE ROAD.
THE ROAD. >> THAT'S
RIGHT, WE ARE EXPERTS.
>> THAT'S RIGHT, WE ARE EXPERTS.
>> Reporter: PUERTO RICO'S
STATUS AS A TERRITORY, NOT A
STATE, ALSO PLAYED A ROLE IN THE
STATE, ALSO PLAYED A ROLE IN
THE ISLAND BORROWING SO MUCH
ISLAND BORROWING SO MUCH
ACCORDING TO PEDRO PIERLUISI,
PUERTO RICO'S RESIDENT
COMMISSIONER AND NONVOTING
REPRESENTATIVE TO CONGRESS.
REPRESENTATIVE TO CONGRESS. >>
FINANCIALLY WE DON'T GET THE
>> FINANCIALLY WE DON'T GET THE
SAME FEDERAL FUNDS THAT STATES
SAME FEDERAL FUNDS
THAT STATES DO.
DO. AND YET WE'RE
AMERICAN CITIZENS.
AND YET WE'RE AMERICAN CITIZENS.
WE ASPIRE TO HAVE THE SAME
QUALITY OF LIFE AS OUR FELLOW
AMERICAN CITIZENS, AND TO SOME
EXTENT THE GOVERNMENT WAS KIND
OF MAKING UP HERE, TRYING TO
PROVIDE ASSISTANCE TO THE NEEDY
POPULATION WITHOUT THE RESOURCES
POPULATION WITHOUT THE
RESOURCES FOR DOING SO.
FOR DOING SO. SO THEY
ENDED UP BORROWING A
SO THEY ENDED UP
BORROWING A LOT.
LOT. >> Reporter:
THE DEBT BURDEN HAS
>> Reporter: THE DEBT BURDEN HAS
BEEN BUILDING HERE FOR DECADES.
BUT A DEEP RECESSION, NOW NEARLY
10 YEARS OLD, HAS BATTERED THE
10 YEARS OLD, HAS BATTERED
THE ISLAND'S ECONOMY LIKE A
ISLAND'S ECONOMY
LIKE A HURRICANE.
HURRICANE. THOUSANDS
OF BUSINESSES HAVE
THOUSANDS OF BUSINESSES HAVE
CLOSED, HOLLOWING OUT ENTIRE
NEIGHBORHOODS, AND LEAVING THE
GOVERNMENT WITH FAR LESS TAX
MONEY TO PAY ITS BILLS.
MONEY TO PAY ITS BILLS. >>
Reporter: IN SAN JUAN'S RIO
>> Reporter: IN SAN JUAN'S RIO
PIEDRAS NEIGHBORHOOD, THIS
VARIETY STORE, AMONG THE FEW
LEFT OPEN, PROMISES BARGAINS FOR
LEFT OPEN, PROMISES
BARGAINS FOR A HARD TIME.
A HARD TIME. BUT ITS
OWNER TELLS US SHOPPERS
BUT ITS OWNER TELLS US
SHOPPERS ARE PICKY.
ARE PICKY. >> (translated
): ONCE THEY PUT
>> (translated): ONCE
THEY PUT THE NEW SALES TAX INTO
PLACE
THE NEW SALES TAX INTO PLACE
SALES WENT DOWN AND PEOPLE ARE
REALLY JUST BUYING THE NECESSARY
REALLY JUST BUYING THE
NECESSARY THINGS.
THINGS. >> Reporter:
FOR OMAYRA TORREZ
>> Reporter: FOR OMAYRA TORREZ
MUNIZ, A SCHOOL CUSTODIAN, THE
DEBT CRISIS IS ONE DOMINO TOO
DEBT CRISIS IS ONE
DOMINO TOO MANY.
MANY. LAID OFF ONCE
BEFORE, SHE FEARS
LAID OFF ONCE BEFORE, SHE
FEARS FOR HER JOB AGAIN.
FOR HER JOB AGAIN. PUERTO
RICO HAS ALREADY CLOSED
PUERTO RICO HAS ALREADY CLOSED
100 SCHOOLS THIS YEAR ALONE.
>> THEY GOT MY MIND CRAZY.
>> THEY GOT MY MIND CRAZY. I
DON'T KNOW WHAT'S GOING TO
I DON'T KNOW WHAT'S
GOING TO HAPPEN TO ME.
HAPPEN TO ME. I CAN'T
BELIEVE THIS IS MY
I CAN'T BELIEVE THIS
IS MY PUERTO RICO.
PUERTO RICO. I CAN'T BELIEVE IT.
I CAN'T BELIEVE IT.
EVERYTHING IS BAD.
EVERYTHING IS BAD. ECONOMY,
GOVERNMENT, THE PEOPLE.
ECONOMY, GOVERNMENT, THE PEOPLE.
>> Reporter: SO NOW THE 42-YEAR-
OLD MOTHER OF THREE HAD DECIDED
TO LEAVE PUERTO RICO, AND HER
PARENTS, TO START A NEW LIFE IN
PARENTS, TO START A NEW
LIFE IN ORLANDO, FLORIDA.
ORLANDO, FLORIDA. DO YOU
WORRY ABOUT LEAVING YOUR
DO YOU WORRY ABOUT LEAVING YOUR
FAMILY BEHIND, YOUR PARENTS?
FAMILY BEHIND, YOUR
PARENTS? >> YES, I DO.
>> YES, I DO. IT'S HARD.
IT'S HARD. BUT I HAVE TO DO IT.
BUT I HAVE TO DO IT. BECAUSE
I GOT THREE KIDS, AND I
BECAUSE I GOT THREE KIDS,
AND I WANT BETTER FOR THEM.
WANT BETTER FOR THEM. >>
Reporter: OMAYRA IS PART OF A
>> Reporter: OMAYRA IS PART OF A
MASSIVE EXODUS TO THE MAINLAND:
50,000 PUERTO RICANS A YEAR ARE
50,000 PUERTO RICANS A YEAR
ARE LEAVING FOR THE U.S.
LEAVING FOR THE U.S.
ACCELERATING A POPULATION
DECLINE THAT BEGAN WITH THE
DECLINE THAT BEGAN WITH
THE RECESSION IN 2006.
RECESSION IN 2006. ARE YOU
CONFIDENT YOU CAN FIND
ARE YOU CONFIDENT YOU CAN
FIND WORK IN THE U.S.?
WORK IN THE U.S.? >> OH
YES. THERE'S A LOT OF WORK
>> OH YES. THERE'S A LOT
OF WORK OVER THERE.
OVER THERE. I'D DO ANYTHING.
I'D DO ANYTHING. ANYTHING.
ANYTHING. I DON'T CARE.
I DON'T CARE. BUT
I'M GONNA WORK.
BUT I'M GONNA WORK. >>
Reporter: DARALEE VASQUEZ-
>> Reporter: DARALEE VASQUEZ-
GARCIA, VISITING HER MOTHER IN
PUERTO RICO, HAS ALREADY MADE
THE MOVE TO NEW YORK, WHERE SHE
TEACHES IN A PUBLIC SCHOOL.
LEAVING HER FAMILY AND FRIENDS
LEAVING HER FAMILY AND
FRIENDS WAS DIFFICULT.
WAS DIFFICULT. >> IT
WAS LIKE SOMEONE WAS
>> IT WAS LIKE SOMEONE WAS
RIPPING A PART OF MY HEART.
>> Reporter: BUT IN NEW YORK,
VASQUEZ-GARCIA EARNS NEARLY FOUR
TIMES WHAT SHE MADE AS A TEACHER
TIMES WHAT SHE MADE AS A
TEACHER IN PUERTO RICO.
IN PUERTO RICO. >> THERE'S
A LOT OF TALENT HERE.
>> THERE'S A LOT OF TALENT HERE.
SO BUT WHEN THE TALENT IS NOT
GIVEN OPPORTUNITIES, WE TOOK THE
OPPORTUNITY TO SAY "LET'S GO
REACH OUT TO A PLACE WHERE OUR
REACH OUT TO A PLACE WHERE
OUR TALENT IS ACCEPTED."
TALENT IS ACCEPTED." >>
Reporter: STATES LIKE TEXAS
>> Reporter: STATES LIKE TEXAS
ARE ACTIVELY RECRUITING THAT
ARE ACTIVELY RECRUITING
THAT TALENT IN PUERTO RICO.
TALENT IN PUERTO RICO. THE
FOR SALE SIGNS-- "SE VENDE"-
THE FOR SALE SIGNS-- "SE
VENDE"- - ARE EVERYWHERE.
- ARE EVERYWHERE. ECONOMIST
HEIDYE CALERO CALLS
ECONOMIST HEIDYE CALERO CALLS
OUT-MIGRATION THE SINGLE
GREATEST THREAT TO THE ISLAND'S
GREATEST THREAT TO THE
ISLAND'S ECONOMY.
ECONOMY. >> THE
PROBLEM IS THAT THE
>> THE PROBLEM IS THAT THE
PEOPLE WHO ARE LEAVING ARE YOUNG
PEOPLE, THEY ARE PROFESSIONALS,
THOSE WHO ARE WORKING, OR A
WORKING AGE, AND I NEED THEM TO
BE HERE IN THE LABOR MARKET, SO
BE HERE IN THE LABOR MARKET,
SO THAT THEY PAY TAXES.
THAT THEY PAY TAXES. SO
UNLESS THE OPPORTUNITIES ARE
SO UNLESS THE OPPORTUNITIES ARE
HERE WE ARE GOING TO SEE AN
EXODUS OF PEOPLE, AND UNLIKE
OTHER COUNTRIES IN THE WORLD WE
HAVE A U.S. PASSPORT, REMEMBER,
HAVE A U.S. PASSPORT,
REMEMBER, WE ARE US CITIZENS.
WE ARE US CITIZENS. >>
Reporter: THE DEBT CRISIS IS
>> Reporter: THE DEBT CRISIS
IS COMPLICATED, TOO, BY PUERTO
COMPLICATED, TOO, BY PUERTO
RICO'S TANGLED, OFTEN TROUBLED,
RICO'S TANGLED, OFTEN
TROUBLED, TIES TO THE U.S.
TIES TO THE U.S. THE
TERRITORY HAS BEEN SUBJECT
THE TERRITORY HAS BEEN SUBJECT
TO THE WHIMS OF CONGRESS SINCE
THE U.S. TOOK THE ISLAND FROM
THE U.S. TOOK THE ISLAND
FROM SPAIN IN 1898.
SPAIN IN 1898. FOR EXAMPLE,
A 100 YEAR OLD LAW-
FOR EXAMPLE, A 100 YEAR OLD LAW-
-THE JONES ACT-- REQUIRES THAT
MOST GOODS SHIPPED TO AND FROM
PUERTO RICO MUST BE CARRIED ON
SHIPS BUILT IN THE U.S. AND
STAFFED BY AMERICAN CREWS.
STAFFED BY AMERICAN CREWS. THAT
MEANS YARITZA LOZANO HAS TO
THAT MEANS YARITZA LOZANO HAS
TO PAY MUCH MORE FOR HER RAW
PAY MUCH MORE FOR HER
RAW INGREDIENTS.
INGREDIENTS. FOR YEARS,
CONGRESS OFFERED
FOR YEARS, CONGRESS OFFERED
GENEROUS TAX BREAKS TO ATTRACT
MANUFACTURERS TO PUERTO RICO,
MANUFACTURERS TO PUERTO
RICO, INCLUDING MANY BIG
INCLUDING MANY BIG
PHARMACEUTICAL COMPANIES, THAT
EMPLOYED THOUSANDS OF SKILLED
WORKERS BUT, BY 2005, THOSE
SUBSIDIES HAD BEEN PHASED OUT,
LEAVING SHUTTERED FACTORIES
LEAVING SHUTTERED
FACTORIES BEHIND.
BEHIND. BUT CONGRESS
STILL REQUIRES
BUT CONGRESS STILL REQUIRES
PUERTO RICO TO PAY THE FEDERAL
MINIMUM WAGE-- $7.25 AN HOUR,
MUCH MORE THAN ITS CARIBBEAN
MUCH MORE THAN ITS
CARIBBEAN NEIGHBORS PAY.
NEIGHBORS PAY. AND SOME
ECONOMISTS SAY GENEROUS
AND SOME ECONOMISTS SAY GENEROUS
WELFARE BENEFITS, THE SAME FO
STAMP AND DISABILITY PROGRAMS AS
STAMP AND DISABILITY PROGRAMS
AS THE U.S., AS WELL AS LOCAL
THE U.S., AS WELL AS LOCAL
BENEFITS LIKE SUBSIDIES FOR
UTILITIES, PROVIDE A PERVERSE
INCENTIVE NOT TO WORK.
INCENTIVE NOT TO WORK. EVEN
SO, YARITZA LAZANO WOULD
EVEN SO, YARITZA LAZANO WOULD
LIKE TO PAY HER 12 EMPLOYEES AT
THE BAKERY EVEN MORE THAN THE
MINIMUM, BECAUSE, SHE SAYS, THEY
MINIMUM, BECAUSE, SHE
SAYS, THEY WORK SO HARD.
WORK SO HARD. >> BUT
I REALLY CAN'T.
>> BUT I REALLY CAN'T. SO I
ACTUALLY TAKE FROM MY OWN
SO I ACTUALLY TAKE FROM
MY OWN SALARY IN A WAY.
SALARY IN A WAY. >>
Reporter: FOR LAZANO, AND
>> Reporter: FOR LAZANO, AND
MANY OTHERS, THE CRISIS IS
CLEARLY TAKING ITS TOLL.
CLEARLY TAKING ITS TOLL. MORE
THAN 150,000 PUERTO RICANS
MORE THAN 150,000 PUERTO RICANS
ARE PROJECTED TO LEAVE IN THE
ARE PROJECTED TO LEAVE
IN THE NEXT FIVE YEARS.
NEXT FIVE YEARS. FOR NOW,
THIS YOUNG BAKER HAS
FOR NOW, THIS YOUNG BAKER HAS
DECIDED TO MAKE A GO OF IT HERE,
EVEN THOUGH BOTH HER PARENTS
HAVE LEFT FOR THE STATES.
>> I THINK THAT MY PLACE IS
HERE, YOU KNOW, IN MY COUNTRY,
TRYING TO HELP IN A WAY THAT I
TRYING TO HELP IN
A WAY THAT I CAN.
CAN. >> Reporter:
BUT THE GOVERNMENT,
>> Reporter: BUT THE GOVERNMENT,
BROKE AND BEHOLDEN TO CREDITORS,
MAY CUT SERVICES, INCLUDING BUS
ROUTES, AND RAISE TAXES EVEN
ROUTES, AND RAISE
TAXES EVEN MORE.
MORE. IN THIS TROPICAL
PARADISE, MANY
IN THIS TROPICAL PARADISE, MANY
OF THOSE LEFT BEHIND FEEL CAUGHT
OF THOSE LEFT BEHIND FEEL
CAUGHT IN A VICIOUS CIRCLE OF
IN A VICIOUS CIRCLE
OF UNCERTAINTY.
UNCERTAINTY. I'M CHRIS
BURY FOR THE PBS
I'M CHRIS BURY FOR THE PBS
NEWSHOUR IN SAN JUAN, PUERTO
NEWSHOUR IN SAN
JUAN, PUERTO RICO.
>> Ifill: WE TURN NEXT TO OUR
WEEKLY "BRIEF BUT SPECTACULAR"
WEEKLY "BRIEF BUT
SPECTACULAR" FEATURE.
FEATURE. TONIGHT,
AUTHOR JENNIFER SENIOR
TONIGHT, AUTHOR JENNIFER SENIOR
SHARES HER IDEAS ABOUT THE
TRIBULATIONS MODERN MOTHERS AND
FATHERS FACE RAISING THEIR
CHILDREN, AND THE WAYS
PARENTHOOD HAS CHANGED OVER THE
PARENTHOOD HAS CHANGED
OVER THE YEARS.
YEARS. >> PEOPLE
CONSTANTLY COME UP TO
>> PEOPLE CONSTANTLY COME UP TO
ME MISTAKENLY THINKING I'M AN
EXPERT ON PARENTING, AND IT'S
WITH TERRIBLE DISAPPOINTMENT
THAT I LOOK AT THEM AND SAY, I
THAT I LOOK AT THEM AND SAY,
I NO NOTHING ABOUT RAISING A
NO NOTHING ABOUT
RAISING A CHILD.
CHILD. I KNOW ABOUTARENT PHOOD.
I KNOW ABOUTARENT PHOOD. I
CAN TELL YOU ABOUT YOU.
I CAN TELL YOU ABOUT YOU. I
CAN'T TELL YOU ABOUT YOUR
I CAN'T TELL YOU
ABOUT YOUR KIDS.
KIDS. I CRUSH THEM EVERY TIME.
I CRUSH THEM EVERY TIME. IN
PLYMOUTH COLONY, THERE WERE
IN PLYMOUTH COLONY, THERE
WERE EIGHT KIDS PER FAMILY.
EIGHT KIDS PER FAMILY.
IN 1850 THERE WERE FIVE.
THRUD ARE TWO, JUST TWO.
THRUD ARE TWO, JUST
TWO. TODAY IF YOU ARE A
TODAY IF YOU ARE A
COLLEGE-EDUCATED WOMAN, YOU WILL
HAVE YOUR FIRST BABY AT 30.3
HAVE YOUR FIRST BABY
AT 30.3 YEARS OLD.
YEARS OLD. AND IF
YOU'RE IN A STRAIGHT
AND IF YOU'RE IN A STRAIGHT
RELATIONSHIP, YOUR HUSBAND IS
RELATIONSHIP, YOUR
HUSBAND IS GOING TO BE.3
GOING TO BE.3 SO
WE HAVE ALL THESE
SO WE HAVE ALL THESE
EXPECTATIONS ON THIS
EXPECTATIONS ON
THIS EXPERIENCE,.
EXPERIENCE,. AND WE'RE
ONLY HAVING TWO KIDS.
AND WE'RE ONLY HAVING TWO KIDS.
40% OF ALL MOTHERS ARE THE
40% OF ALL MOTHERS ARE THE PRIMY
IARF NOT SOLE BREADWINNERS
PRIMY IARF NOT SOLE
BREADWINNERS OF THEIR FAMILIES.
OF THEIR FAMILIES.
THAT'S JUST HUGE.
THAT'S JUST HUGE. SOMETHING
LIKE 79% OF US THINK
SOMETHING LIKE 79% OF US THINK
WE SHOULD NOT GO BACK TO THE OLD
KIND OF DOMESTIC ARRANGEMENTS
WHERE WOMEN STAY HOME AND MEN GO
WHERE WOMEN STAY HOME AND MEN
GO OUT TO WORK, WHICH IS GREAT.
OUT TO WORK, WHICH IS GREAT.
51% OF US THINK KIDS WOULD BE
BETTER OFF IF WOMEN STAYED HOME
BETTER OFF IF WOMEN
STAYED HOME FULL TIME.
FULL TIME. GO AHEAD,
RECONCILE THOSE TWO
GO AHEAD, RECONCILE
THOSE TWO THINGS.
THINGS. YOU CAN'T DO IT.
YOU CAN'T DO IT.
WOMEN ARE SERIOUSLY
OVERCOMPENSATING.
OVERCOMPENSATING. THEY ARE
NOT ONLY WORKING LIKE
THEY ARE NOT ONLY WORKING LIKE
ALL THE TIME, THEY'RE SPENDING
RECORD AMOUNTS OF TIME WITH
RECORD AMOUNTS OF
TIME WITH THEIR KIDS.
THEIR KIDS. KIDS UDSE TO WORK.
KIDS UDSE TO WORK. THEY
WORKED IN OUR FACTORIES, IN
THEY WORKED IN OUR FACTORIES,
IN OUR MILLS, IN OUR MINES, IN
OUR MILLS, IN OUR MINES, IN
STREET TRADES, AND MAINLY ON OUR
STREET TRADES, AND
MAINLY ON OUR FARMS.
FARMS. I AM NOT
PINING FOR THEDY KEN
I AM NOT PINING FOR THEDY KEN
ACCIDENT DAYS OF YORE WHEN
CHILDREN ARE WORKING, BUT ONCE
KIDS STOPPED WORKING, THE
ECONOMICS OF PARENTING REALLY
ECONOMICS OF PARENTING
REALLY CHANGED.
CHANGED. THEY WEREN'T
WORKING FOR US, WE
THEY WEREN'T WORKING FOR US, WE
WERE WORKING FOR THEM, VIOLIN
LESSONS ARE THEIR NEW WORK.
COLLEGE CALC IN NINTH GRADE IS
THEIR NEW WORK, AND THAT'S FINE.
THEIR NEW WORK, AND THAT'S
FINE. IT BENEFITS THEM MAYBE.
IT BENEFITS THEM MAYBE.
IT DOES NOT BENEFIT THEIR
IT DOES NOT BENEFIT
THEIR PARENTS.
PARENTS. IT COSTS THEIR PARENTS.
IT COSTS THEIR PARENTS. THE
ONE MANTRA EVERY PARENT HAS
THE ONE MANTRA EVERY PARENT HAS
IS ALL I WANT IS FOR MY KIDS TO
BE HAPPEN -- HAPPY, BUT SOME
KIDS ARE NEVER GOING TO BE
HAPPY, THE BEST THING YOU CAN DO
FOR THOSE CHILDREN AND ALSO FOR
YOURSELF IS TO TRY AND AIM FOR
SOMETHING, DINGS THAT I THINK
SOMETHING, DINGS THAT I
THINK CAN MAYBE BE TAUGHT.
CAN MAYBE BE TAUGHT. DEEP
YOUR KIDS HOW TO BE DECENT.
DEEP YOUR KIDS HOW TO BE DECENT.
THAT USED TO BE ONCE UPON A TIME
NOT SO LONG GO, THAT USED TO BE
NOT SO LONG GO, THAT
USED TO BE ENOUGH.
ENOUGH. MY NAME IS
JENNIFER SENIOR, AND
MY NAME IS JENNIFER SENIOR, AND
THIS IS MY BRIEF BUT SPECTACULAR
TAKE ON THE PARADOX OF MODERN
TAKE ON THE PARADOX
OF MODERN PARENTHOOD.
>> Woodruff: WE'LL BE BACK WITH
A NEW BOOK LOOKING AT THE LIFE
OF PRESIDENT RONALD REAGAN.
OF PRESIDENT RONALD REAGAN. BUT
FIRST, TAKE A MOMENT TO HEAR
BUT FIRST, TAKE A MOMENT TO HEAR
FROM YOUR LOCAL PBS STATION.
TAKE THE OPPORTUNITY TO OFFER
YOUR SUPPORT, WHICH HELPS KEEP
PROGRAMS LIKE OURS ON THE AIR.
T ADDITION TO THE NEWSHOUR
ADDITION TO THE
NEWSHOUR BOOKSHELF.
BOOKSHELF. AS THE
2016 PRESIDENTIAL
AS THE 2016 PRESIDENTIAL
ELECTIONS START RAMPING UP WITH
THE BIGGEST FIELD OF CANDIDATES
EVER, WE TAKE A LOOK AT THE MAN
WHO IN MANY WAYS REDEFINED THE
MODERN REPUBLICAN PARTY: RONALD
MODERN REPUBLICAN
PARTY: RONALD REAGAN.
REAGAN. HISTORIAN
AND UNIVERSITY OF
HISTORIAN AND UNIVERSITY OF
TEXAS PROFESSOR H.W. BRANDS
OFFERS A NEW PERSPECTIVE ON THE
POLITICIAN AND THE PRAGMATIST.
HIS LATEST BOOK IS "REAGAN: THE
HIS LATEST BOOK IS
"REAGAN: THE LIFE."
LIFE." JEFFREY BROWN
RECENTLY TALKED
JEFFREY BROWN RECENTLY
TALKED WITH HIM.
WITH HIM. >> Brown: H.W. BRANDS,
>> Brown: H.W. BRANDS, WELCOME.
WELCOME. >> THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU. >> A
LIFE SO DOCUMENTED, SO
>> A LIFE SO DOCUMENTED, SO
PUBLIC, SO MUCH WRITTEN OF, WHAT
DID YOU FEEL WAS LEFT TO SAY OR
IMPORTT ANTO SAY ABOUT RONALD
IMPORTT ANTO SAY
ABOUT RONALD REAGAN?
REAGAN? >> TO ME THE
IMPORTANT THING
>> TO ME THE IMPORTANT THING
WITH RONALD REAGAN IS HOW A
COMPARATIVELY ORDINARY MAN,
SOMEONE WITH NOT EXTRAORDINARY
TALENTS, ACCOMPLISHED SUCH
EXTRAORDINARY RESULTS.
AT THE AGE OF 50, NO ONE
EXPECTED THAT THIS WAS GOING TO
BE THE GUY WHO WOULD BECOME, AT
LEAST IN MY INTERPRETATION, ONE
LEAST IN MY INTERPRETATION,
ONE OF THE TWO MOST IMPORTANT
OF THE TWO MOST IMPORTANT
PRESIDENTS OF THE 20th
PRESIDENTS OF THE 20th CENTURY.
CENTURY. >> THAT'S
WHERE YOU RANK HIM?
>> THAT'S WHERE YOU RANK HIM?
>> YES, THERE IS FRANKLIN
ROOSEVELT, WHO REALLY DOMINATES
THE FIRST HALF OF THE 20th
CENTURY, PUSH AMERICAN POLITICS
IN A LIBERAL DIRECTION, AND
RONALD REAGAN, WHO DOMINATES THE
RONALD REAGAN, WHO DOMINATES
THE SECOND HALF OF THE 20th
SECOND HALF OF THE 20th
POLITICS BACK IN A
CONSERVATIVE DIRECTION.
DIRECTION. DURING
THE END OF THE 1964
DURING THE END OF THE 1964
PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN, REAGAN
GIVES A SPEECH ON BEHALF OF
GIVES A SPEECH ON BEHALF
OF BARRY GOLDWATER.
BARRY GOLDWATER. IT WAS
LIKE A SCREEN TEST FOR A
IT WAS LIKE A SCREEN
TEST FOR A NEW CAREER.
NEW CAREER. >> THIS
IDEA THAT GOVERNMENT IS
>> THIS IDEA THAT GOVERNMENT IS
BEHOLDEN TO THE PEOPLE, TSHI
IDEA THAT IT HAS NO OTHER SOURCE
IDEA THAT IT HAS NO OTHER
SOURCE OF POWER OTHER THAN THE
OF POWER OTHER THAN
THE SOVEREIGN PEOPLE.
SOVEREIGN PEOPLE. >> HIS
HOLLYWOOD CAREER WAS
>> HIS HOLLYWOOD
CAREER WAS ENDED.
ENDED. HE DIDN'T
KNOW WHAT HIS FUTURE
HE DIDN'T KNOW WHAT HIS FUTURE
WOULD BE. HE WAS GIVEN
A CHANCE TO MOUNT A
HE WAS GIVEN A CHANCE
TO MOUNT A NEW STAGE.
NEW STAGE. HE GIVE A
SPEECH CALLED "THE
HE GIVE A SPEECH
CALLED "THE SPEECH."
SPEECH." IT WAS SO
POWERFUL THAT PEOPLE
IT WAS SO POWERFUL THAT PEOPLE
THE NEXT DAY STARTED FORMING
REAGAN FOR PRESIDENT COMMITTEES
FOR THIS GUY WHO HAD NEVER BEEN
THOUGHTS OF IN A POLITICAL
THOUGHTS OF IN A
POLITICAL SENSE.
SENSE. >> A LOT OF
PEOPLE TO THIS DAY
>> A LOT OF PEOPLE TO THIS DAY
THINK THAT THERE WAS A SENSE OF
THINK THAT THERE WAS A SENSE
OF IT'S HARD TO KNOW THE REAL
IT'S HARD TO KNOW THE
REAL RONALD REAGAN.
RONALD REAGAN. >>
HELLO, LITTLE GIRL.
>> HELLO, LITTLE GIRL.
WHAT'S YOUR NAME?
>> LISA MEYERS.
>> LISA MEYERS. >>
Brown: YOU PROBABLY
>> Brown: YOU PROBABLY REMEMBER
THE OLD "SATURDAY NIGHT
REMEMBER THE OLD "SATURDAY NIGHT
LIVE" SKIT WHERE HE'S AVUNCULAR,
FEATHERBRAINED WHILE THE CAMERAS
FEATHERBRAINED WHILE
THE CAMERAS ARE ON.
ARE ON. >> WELL, IT
WAS NICE MEETING
>> WELL, IT WAS
NICE MEETING YOU.
YOU. >> COME ON, LISA.
>> COME ON, LISA. >> BYE-BYE.
>> BYE-BYE. BACK TO WORK!
BACK TO WORK! >> THEY ALL
GO AWAY AND SUDDENLY
>> THEY ALL GO AWAY AND SUDDENLY
THE MICROMANAGER, KNOWS
THE MICROMANAGER,
KNOWS EVERYTHING.
EVERYTHING. >> Brown:
WAS IT HARD TO GET A
>> Brown: WAS IT HARD TO GET A
SENSE OF YOUR ARMS AROUND THE
SENSE OF YOUR ARMS AROUND
THE GUY, TO KNOW HIM?
GUY, TO KNOW HIM? >>
THAT SKIT OVERSTATES
>> THAT SKIT OVERSTATES
SOMETHING THAT HAS A KERNEL OF
SOMETHING THAT HAS A
KERNEL OF TRUTH TO IT.
TRUTH TO IT. REAGAN
CONSPIRED IN THE
REAGAN CONSPIRED IN THE
UNDERESTIMATION OF HIS OWN
UNDERESTIMATION OF
HIS OWN ABILITY.
ABILITY. AND HE...
AND HE... >> Brown: CONSPIRED?
>> Brown: CONSPIRED? >>
YEAH, IN THE SENSE HE WAS
>> YEAH, IN THE SENSE HE WAS
QUITE WILLING TO LET PEOPLE
QUITE WILLING TO LET
PEOPLE UNDERESTIMATE HIM.
UNDERESTIMATE HIM. AND
CLARK CLIFFORD INFAMOUSLY
AND CLARK CLIFFORD INFAMOUSLY
CALLED HIM AN AMIABLE DUNCE.
WELL, HE WOULDN'T HAVE ACCEPTED
THAT, BUT HE DIDN'T PRETEND TO
BE THE MASTER OF EVERYTHING THAT
HAPPENED IN HIS ADMINISTRATION.
IN FACT, HE OFTEN HELD HIMSELF
OUT OF THE CONTRAST TO JIMMY
CARTER, WHO REALLY WAS THAT
MICROMANAGER IN THE OVAL OFFICE,
AND WHO HAD A VERY UNSUCCESSFUL
AND WHO HAD A VERY
UNSUCCESSFUL PRESIDENCY.
PRESIDENCY. REAGAN
FOCUSED ON A COUPLE OF
REAGAN FOCUSED ON A
COUPLE OF THINGS.
THINGS. >> GIVE ME
AN ANECDOTE OR AN
>> GIVE ME AN ANECDOTE
OR AN EXAMPLE.
EXAMPLE. >> WELL,
REAGAN GAVE THE SPEECH
>> WELL, REAGAN GAVE THE SPEECH
THAT OPENED HIS POLITICAL CAREER
THAT OPENED HIS POLITICAL
CAREER IN 1964.
IN 1964. IN THAT
SPEECH HE LAID OUT TWO
IN THAT SPEECH HE LAID OUT TWO
THINGS FOR THE UNITED STATES.
AND THE TWO THINGS WERE WE NEED
TO SHRINK GOVERNMENT AT HOME.
WE NEED TO DEFEAT COMMUNISM
WE NEED TO DEFEAT
COMMUNISM ABROAD.
ABROAD. AND REAGAN
IN ESSENCE GAVE THAT
AND REAGAN IN ESSENCE GAVE THAT
SAME SPEECH AGAIN AND AGAIN
DURING THE 25 YEARS OF HIS
DURING THE 25 YEARS OF
HIS POLITICAL LIFE.
POLITICAL LIFE. >> MR.
GORBACHEV, TEAR DOWN THIS
>> MR. GORBACHEV,
TEAR DOWN THIS WALL.
WALL. [CHEERING AND APPLAUSE]
[CHEERING AND APPLAUSE] >>
YOU'RE WORKING IN AN AREA
>> YOU'RE WORKING IN AN AREA
WHERE THESE DEBATES ARE STILL
WHERE THESE DEBATES ARE
STILL WITH US, RIGHT?
WITH US, RIGHT? THIS IS
THE MOST PARTISAN IN A
THIS IS THE MOST PARTISAN IN A
WAY OF SUBJECTS, POLARIZING
WAY OF SUBJECTS,
POLARIZING FIGURE.
FIGURE. HOW DID HE BECOME THAT?
HOW DID HE BECOME THAT? AND
WHY IS IT STILL WITH US?
AND WHY IS IT STILL WITH US? >>
WELL, REAGAN IS STILL AN ICON
>> WELL, REAGAN IS STILL AN
ICON FOR REPUBLICANS BECAUSERE
FOR REPUBLICANS BECAUSERE ARE
ESSENTIALLY TWO REAGANS.
ARE ESSENTIALLY TWO REAGANS.
THERE IS THE REAGAN WHO GAVE THE
THERE IS THE REAGAN WHO
GAVE THE SPEECHES.
SPEECHES. THIS IS THE
REAGAN WHO WAS THE
THIS IS THE REAGAN WHO
WAS THE CANDIDATE.
CANDIDATE. IF YOU READ
REAGAN'S SPEECHES,
IF YOU READ REAGAN'S SPEECHES,
THEY READ JUST LIKE THE PLAYBOOK
FROM THE TEA PARTY TODAY.
IT'S 1400% CONSERVATIVE.
IT'S 1400% CONSERVATIVE. SO
THE MOST CONSERVATIVE MEMBERS
SO THE MOST CONSERVATIVE MEMBERS
OF THE REPUBLICAN PARTY TODAY
CAN READ REAGAN AND WATCH HIS
CAN READ REAGAN AND WATCH
HIS SPEECHES ON YOUTUBE AND
SPEECHES ON YOUTUBE AND
ELSEWHERE AND SAY, THAT'S OUR
ELSEWHERE AND SAY,
THAT'S OUR GUY.
GUY. BUT THERE IS
ALSO THE REAGAN WHO
BUT THERE IS ALSO THE REAGAN WHO
WAS GOVERNOR OF CALIFORNIA, WHO
WAS PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES, THE REAGAN WHO KNEW THAT
THE POINT OF GETTING ELECTED WAS
THE POINT OF GETTING ELECTED
WAS TO GOVERN, AND TO GOVERNOR
TO GOVERN, AND TO GOVERNOR
NORTHEASTERN A DEMOCRACY IS TO
NORTHEASTERN A DEMOCRACY
IS TO COMPROMISE.
COMPROMISE. REAGAN USED
TO SAY THAT HE WOULD
REAGAN USED TO SAY THAT HE WOULD
RATHER GET 80% OF WHAT HE WANTED
THAN GO OVER THE CLIFF WITH HIS
THAN GO OVER THE CLIFF
WITH HIS FLAGS FLYING.
FLAGS FLYING. THIS IS
THE REAGAN THAT WOULD
THIS IS THE REAGAN THAT
WOULD MAKE TEA PARTY TYPES
MAKE TEA PARTY TYPES
UNCOMFORTABLE TODAY.
UNCOMFORTABLE TODAY. DEPENDING
ON WHICH REAGAN YOU
DEPENDING ON WHICH REAGAN
YOU LOOK AT, YOU CAN TAKE A
LOOK AT, YOU CAN TAKE A
DIFFERENT INTERPRETATION AWAY.
>> Brown: THERE IS ALSO THE
RONALD REAGAN THAT WAS A
DEMOCRAT IN HIS YOUTH.
DEMOCRAT IN HIS YOUTH. DO YOU
SEE A FAIRLY DIRECT LINE
DO YOU SEE A FAIRLY DIRECT LINE
FOR WHAT HE BECAME OR DO YOU SEE
MAN WHO WAS ADJUSTING AS HE
MAN WHO WAS ADJUSTING
AS HE WENT?
WENT? >> WELL, THERE
IS A DIRECT LINE,
>> WELL, THERE IS A DIRECT LINE,
BUT IT HAS A BIG BEND IN IT.
>> WHEN IT COMES TO POLITICAL
>> WHEN IT COMES TO
POLITICAL PHILOSOPHIES.
PHILOSOPHIES. REAGAN'S
FIRST POLITICAL HERO
REAGAN'S FIRST POLITICAL
HERO WAS FRANKLIN ROOSEVELT.
WAS FRANKLIN ROOSEVELT. AND
AS A YOUNG MAN, HE VOTED
AND AS A YOUNG MAN, HE VOTED
FOUR TIMES FOR FRANKLIN
FOUR TIMES FOR
FRANKLIN ROOSEVELT.
ROOSEVELT. REAGAN'S
POLITICAL PHILOSOPHY
REAGAN'S POLITICAL PHILOSOPHY
EVENTUALLY WENT 180 DEGREES THE
EVENTUALLY WENT 180
DEGREES THE OTHER WAY.
OTHER WAY. SO HE
BECAME A CONSERVATIVE.
SO HE BECAME A CONSERVATIVE. BUT
HIS IDEA OF BEING PRESIDENT,
BUT HIS IDEA OF BEING PRESIDENT,
HIS MODEL FOR BEING PRESIDENT,
REMAINED FRANKLIN ROOSEVELT.
HE UNDERSTOOD THAT ROOSEVELT'S
POWER CAME FROM ROOSEVELT'S
ABILITY TO CONVEY A VISION TO
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE AND TO SHARE
THAT VISION, AND REAGAN, WHEN HE
BECAME PRESIDENT, DID EXACTLY
BECAME PRESIDENT, DID
EXACTLY THE SAME THING.
THE SAME THING. >> WHAT
ROLE DO YOU THINK HE HAS
>> WHAT ROLE DO YOU
THINK HE HAS TODAY.
TODAY. >> REAGAN
REMAINS THIS ANCHOR
>> REAGAN REMAINS THIS ANCHOR
FOR CONSERVATIVETIVE POLITILCA
FOR CONSERVATIVETIVE
POLITILCA PHILOSOPHY TODAY.
PHILOSOPHY TODAY. IF YOU
WANT... IF YOU ARE A
IF YOU WANT... IF YOU ARE A
CONSERVATIVE AND YOU WANT TO
KNOW WHAT THE CONSERVATIVE
AGENDA SHOULD BE, GO READ
AGENDA SHOULD BE, GO
READ REAGAN'S SPEECHES.
REAGAN'S SPEECHES. ON THE
OTHER HAND, IF YOU WANT
ON THE OTHER HAND, IF YOU WANT
TO UNDERSTAND HOW PRESIDENTS
ACTUALLY MAKE CHANGES, BEYOND
JUST MAKINGPEEC SH, HOW THEY
MAKE CHANGES, THEN TAKE A LOOK
MAKE CHANGES, THEN TAKE A
LOOK AT REAGAN AS HE WAS THE
AT REAGAN AS HE WAS THE
GOVERNOR, AS HE WAS GOVERNOR AND
GOVERNOR, AS HE WAS GOVERNOR
AND THEN AS PRESIDENT.
THEN AS PRESIDENT. HOW
HE ACTUALLY OPERATED IN
HOW HE ACTUALLY
OPERATED IN OFFICE.
OFFICE. >> YOU THINK
THIS IS ONE OF THE
>> YOU THINK THIS IS ONE OF
THE THINGS THAT WE HAVE NOT
THINGS THAT WE HAVE NOT
UNDERSTOOD VERY WELL, HIS
ABILITIES AS A POLITICIAN.
ABILITIES AS A
POLITICIAN. >> EXACTLY.
>> EXACTLY. HE'S
UNDERESTIMATED I THINK BY
HE'S UNDERESTIMATED I THINK BY
BOTH LIBERALS AND CONSERVATIVES.
THE LIBERALS DON'T WANT TO GIVE
THE LIBERALS DON'T WANT TO
GIVE HIM CREDIT FOR WHAT HE
HIM CREDIT FOR WHAT
HE ACCOMPLISHED.
ACCOMPLISHED. AND THE
CONSERVATIVES OFTEN
AND THE CONSERVATIVES OFTEN
DON'T WANT THE BELIEVE THAT HE
MADE THESE COMPROMISES IN A
MADE THESE COMPROMISES
IN A LIBERAL DIRECTION.
LIBERAL DIRECTION.
>> Brown: ALL RIGHT.
>> Brown: ALL RIGHT. THE
BOOK IS "REAGAN: THE LIFE."
THE BOOK IS "REAGAN: THE LIFE."
H.W. BRANDS, THANK YOU SO MUCH.
H.W. BRANDS, THANK YOU
SO MUCH. >> MY PLEASURE.
>> Ifill: FINALLY TONIGHT, OUR
"NEWSHOUR SHARES" OF THE DAY.
SOMETHING THAT CAUGHT OUR EYE
WHICH MIGHT BE OF INTEREST TO
WHICH MIGHT BE OF
INTEREST TO YOU, TOO.
YOU, TOO. STARGAZERS
AROUND THE WORLD GOT
STARGAZERS AROUND THE WORLD GOT
INTO POSITION LAST NIGHT FOR THE
ANNUAL PERSEID METEOR SHOWER.
EVERY AUGUST, HUNDREDS OF STARS
EVERY AUGUST, HUNDREDS OF
STARS LIGHT UP THE NIGHT.
LIGHT UP THE NIGHT. AND
THIS YEAR, THE SHOW IS
AND THIS YEAR, THE SHOW IS
PROVING TO BE ESPECIALLY
PROVING TO BE
ESPECIALLY SPECTACULAR.
SPECTACULAR. FROM THE
SKIES OVER SOUTHERN
FROM THE SKIES OVER SOUTHERN
CALIFORNIA, TO AN ORTHODOX
CHURCH IN BELARUS, TO AN ANCIENT
ROMAN THEATRE IN SPAIN.
ROMAN THEATRE IN SPAIN. MADE
UP OF BITS OF DUST AND ICE,
MADE UP OF BITS OF DUST AND ICE,
THE METEORS ENTER THE ATMOSPHERE
AT A SPEED OF 37 MILES A SECOND,
LEAVING BEHIND GLOWING SMOKE
LEAVING BEHIND GLOWING
SMOKE TRAILS.
TRAILS. AND BECAUSE
THERE'S NO MOON IN
AND BECAUSE THERE'S NO MOON IN
THE SKY THIS YEAR, THE STREAKS
OF LIGHT ARE BRIGHTER THAN EVER.
IT'S NOT TOO LATE TO SEE THE
IT'S NOT TOO LATE
TO SEE THE SHOW.
SHOW. TONIGHT'S
PEAK IS EXPECTED TO
TONIGHT'S PEAK IS EXPECTED TO
OCCUR AT ABOUT 4:00 A.M. EASTERN
OCCUR AT ABOUT 4:00
A.M. EASTERN TIME.
TIME. >> Woodruff:
ON THE NEWSHOUR
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE, THE COLOR RED CONJURES
IMAGES OF WEALTH, POWER AND
SEDUCTION, AND FOR ARTISTS AND
DESIGNERS, FINDING THAT PERFECT
SHADE HAS BEEN A QUEST.
SHADE HAS BEEN A QUEST. FOR
CENTURIES, THEY HAVE TURNED
FOR CENTURIES, THEY HAVE TURNED
TO A TINY INSECT THE SIZE OF THE
HEAD OF A PIN TO PROVIDE SOME OF
THE RICHEST RED PIGMENT THAT'S
THE RICHEST RED PIGMENT
THAT'S STILL USED TODAY.
STILL USED TODAY. IT'S
ALSO THE SUBJECT OF AN
IT'S ALSO THE SUBJECT OF AN
EXHIBIT AT THE INTERNATIONAL
FOLK ART MUSEUM IN SANTA FE, NEW
FOLK ART MUSEUM IN
SANTA FE, NEW MEXICO.
MEXICO. YOU CAN SEE
A PHOTO GALLERY OF
YOU CAN SEE A PHOTO GALLERY OF
ITEMS USING THIS DYE, THOSE ARE
ITEMS USING THIS DYE, THOSE
ARE ON OUR HOME PAGE.
ON OUR HOME PAGE. THAT'S
AT pbs.org/newshour.
THAT'S AT pbs.org/newshour.
TUNE IN LATER THIS EVENING, ON
CHARLIE ROSE: TAKING ELECTRONIC
DANCE MUSIC MAINSTREAM.
SKRILLEX AND DIPLO PRESENT JACK
SKRILLEX AND DIPLO
PRESENT JACK OOOH.
OOOH. >> Ifill:
AND ON TOMORROW'S
>> Ifill: AND ON TOMORROW'S
NEWSHOUR, JEFFREY BROWN PREVIEWS
THE NEW FILM "STRAIGHT OUTTA
COMPTON," WHICH DETAILS THE RISE
OF N.W.A., THE HIP-HOP GROUP
WHOSE PROFANE SONGS OF PROTEST
ATTRACTED BOTH FAME AND INFAMY
IN THE LATE 1980S AND EARLY
IN THE LATE 1980S
AND EARLY 1990S.
1990S. MORE THAN 25
YEARS LATER, ICE
MORE THAN 25 YEARS LATER, ICE
CUBE OF N.W.A. TOLD US THAT
MESSAGE RESONATES MORE THAN
MESSAGE RESONATES
MORE THAN EVER.
EVER. >> THAT'S
ACTUALLY SAD TO BE
>> THAT'S ACTUALLY
SAD TO BE HONEST.
HONEST. THAT THE
STUFF THAT WE WERE
THAT THE STUFF THAT WE WERE
GOING THROUGH IN THE LATE '80S,
THE EARLY '90S, YOU KNOW ITS
STILL FRESH IN THE NEWS TODAY.
SO WHAT WE WERE SPEAKING ON WAS
THE REALITY OF HOW WE WERE
LIVING AND WHAT WE WERE GOING
LIVING AND WHAT WE
WERE GOING THROUGH.
THROUGH. AND ITS JUST
A SHAME THAT PEOPLE
AND ITS JUST A SHAME THAT PEOPLE
ARE STILL GOING THROUGH THE SAME
ARE STILL GOING THROUGH
THE SAME THINGS.
THINGS. NOTHING HAS CHANGED.
NOTHING HAS CHANGED. >>
Woodruff: TUNE IN FOR THE
>> Woodruff: TUNE IN FOR
THE FULL STORY TOMORROW.
FULL STORY TOMORROW. AND
THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
TONIGHT. I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF. >>
Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
JOIN US ON-LINE, AND AGAIN HERE
TOMORROW EVENING WITH DAVID
BROOKS AND DAVID CORN.
FOR ALL OF US AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU
AND GOOD NIGHT.